Border Rancher Warns of Cartel Border Takeover on U.S. Soil
## Uploaded to OathKeepersOK on 9/2/14
## Listened on 8/14/16

## Mostly not verbatim. Check audio before quoting.

## Keywords: Mexico border; Texas; rancher; OK; Border Patrol; illegals; Iran; Somalia; Iraq, Syria; left hand; records disappear; lone patrol; agents attacked; cartels; coyotes; gangs; cartel list; threaten daughters; kill dogs; family killed; Monterrey; Brownsville; Gypsy; Budapest; Auschwitz; Dachau; Russian soldiers; Houston; St. Louis; kidnapping; prostitution; Amber Alert; AK-47s; hand grenades; RPGs; Chinese weapons; terrorist wanted list; Hamas camps; gang bangers; run off their land; MS-13; RoE; BLM; Texas DPS; Texas State Guard; Texas National Guard; Semtex; Matamoros; cartel kids; China sending weapons; Big Thicket of Texas; drugs via 737; Customs department source; ISIS; illegals for Democratic Party votes; 4GW; martial law; US government financing illegals; manufactured chaos; coyotes doing duty for Mexico; smoke and mirrors; Governor Perry; boots on the ground; budget cut; Indiana; Texas vets; Louisiana; Alabama; drive-by; 1776 Armor; competent leadership; NCOs; Reconquista; Aztlan; La Raza; Americans helping illegals; gear; body armor; night optics; thermal; shut down ports; boycott; Ukraine; Russia; local politicians; sheriffs; Texas Rangers; Tahmooressi; Brandon Robb; failed state; Mexican military; Mexican militia; VFW; Legion

## Phone conversation between Stewart Rhodes, Elias Alias (website editor), Todd Brown (TX OK), Cuban “Rusty” Monsees (TX rancher), Rob Chup (Indiana OK) 

## SPLC story from June 2015, where Monsees expresses regret for inviting militia to defend his property: https://www.splcenter.org/hatewatch/2015/06/16/texas-border-militia-‘camp-rusty’-calls-it-quits-‘it-wasn’t-great’

## Video starts with Rhodes talking right away

SR: This is SR. I also have Elias, our editor, and Todd Brown, an OK in TX. Talking today to Cuban “Rusty” Monsees Junior, a rancher on the Texas-Mexico border, also Rob Chup, an OK from Indiana, who’s down there as a volunteer helping to guard Rusty’s ranch. Rusty, can you tell us what’s happening down there?

RM: Here’s an example. I just talked to a guy who’s a tick eradication specialist, he’s an animal inspector for USDA. They ride the river looking for livestock crossing from Mexico because there’s still hoof-and-mouth disease, anthrax, and fever ticks over there. He’s trying to make a case against these guys that use horses to swim drugs across the border. (0:01:09.8) On my 20 acres, there are trails all over the place. We get kids, adults, cartels bringing across people from as far as the Mediterranean. I’ve talked to some agents, they picked up some characters from Somalia, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Watusi tribesman, anything you can think of (0:01:57.6). One of them said he knows that the ones he’s picking up are Muslim because, as a test, he’ll reach out with his left hand to touch them. If you know about the difference between right hand and left hand. Or if he sticks his foot out to them and they take off, he knows he’s dealing with Muslims. 

SR: How often does that happen? (0:02:29.4)

RM: Pretty often. Everyone they pick up – I stay close to them, they’ll talk to me, they won’t necessarily talk to anyone else. These characters, they’ll take them somewhere and they’ll disappear, even their records will disappear. I asked one, he said that’s an order from way up the line (0:02:56.9), up in DC. They don’t want anybody to know how many are coming through.

SR: Are you talking about, other than Mexicans, people from Africa and the Middle East who are being brought in? The Border Patrol is being told specifically to not keep records on them?

RM: Well, they keep records, but the records disappear (0:03:21.5), out of the computer and the paper records too. Not just the Middle East, but around the Mediterranean itself, the Red Sea. This is what bothers me. If you take an Iranian who’s 5 foot 7, and you strip him down and stand him next to a Mexican who’s 5’7”, you can’t tell any difference of them by coloration. The only way you can tell the difference is by reaching out with your left hand for him (0:04:03.1). Muslim, the Iranian will take off. The Mexican will just stand there, he won’t know what the deal is.

SR: (0:04:11.9) The reason is that in Middle Eastern countries, the left hand is considered unclean and offensive, because that’s the hand they use when they go to the restroom, right?

RM: Yep. Now at the same time, what the Border Patrol is dealing with is, I know of 6 instances in the last 3.5 months, where lone agents on patrol in the daytime, sometimes at night, have been physically attacked. One of them I know of because I talked to his brother-in-law (0:04:47.9), one leg was broken, one arm was broken, crushed his chest, broke his sternum and 8 ribs, and stomped on him so bad they thought he was dead, stripped off his uniform, got his backup and service automatic. They got his tac-vest, his M4, all the ammunition, and then took all the comm equipment. They’ve just been issued new sophisticated comms equipment. This has happened about 6 times. (0:05:33.0)

SR: Are you talking about cartel-type coyotes?

RM: Some of them are the cartel that’s living on this side. They go out in gangs and wait for the Border Patrol. What makes this so bad is that, as an agent, you walk up on a group, unless they shoot at you, you’re not allowed to pull your service piece out. You have to wait until you’re physically attacked. If you’re by yourself, even if you’re a SEAL, if 5 guys jump you, they’re gonna take you.

SR: (0:06:15.7) These Border Patrol agents are out by themselves very often?

RM: Most of the time. That’s the directives from Washington.

SR: They don’t buddy-pair at all? They have to go out entirely alone?

RM: They do, but they’re not supposed to. They’re supposed to be single. (0:06:42.5) I depend on them so much, I look the other way. I figure too, if two of them are together, they’re that much safer.

SR: Absolutely. It’s ridiculous they can’t pair up. So they’re being left intentionally vulnerable to being murdered. 

RM: Yes. If you’ve seen stories about kids throwing rocks at Marine units in the river, they’re not throwing rocks. Rocks are about the size of baseballs. They take innertubes out of tractor tires and they make the biggest slingshot you’ve ever seen. (0:07:23.7) They are heaving boulders, that weigh 5 to 15 pounds, at the marine units. I don’t care who you are, you get hit by a 5 pound rock, it’s gonna knock you down, it’s gonna do damage.

SR: (0:07:40.0) When you say marine units, you mean Border Patrol units in boats, right?

RM: Yeah, they’ve got places where they can get in the river and patrol. These guys are wide open. The boats they have here for the river aren’t armored, they’re just Zodiacs. You can make a whole in those really easily.

SR: (0:08:09.5) Have you been threatened by the cartels?

RM: To the point that I’m number 5 on a list out of Mexico.

SR: How do you know that?

RM: A man from Mexico who fled the cartel told me about it. Also because I’ve had phone calls, back when my daughters were in college, they called me up and told me to keep my mouth shut because if I didn’t, they were gonna hurt my daughters. They gave me a rundown on their class schedule, when they ate, when they went to the rec hall, what they normally wore, who their friends were. So I laid off for about 2 months, until I got some people up there at their college, and they started following the girls around. As these guys came along, they eliminated the problem. (0:09:08.5) My daughters never knew about it.

SR: How long ago was that?

RM: Three years ago. I’ve gotten threats since then. They go by here and just yell whatever you can think of. I had some junkyard dogs that came up here, liked the farm and stayed here. The Border Patrol loved them because the dogs would go on patrol with them at night. After a while the dogs disappeared, after a month I recognized a kid who was a coyote bringing people in, he was across the road from me, going back to Mexico, he asked me in Spanish whether or not I’d seen my dogs (0:10:20.2). I said no, but they’ll be back, he said not this time. I asked him why, he said my nephew told me your dogs are making too much knows, the Border Patrol were catching too many people, he told me to do something about it, but I had to prove I’d done something. I asked him how he proved it, he said I cut their heads off. (0:10:49.1) From what I understand, the jefe has the heads mounted in his office. 
 SR: Who is that? Explain what a jefe is.

RM: (0:11:00.1) The jefe is the head of the local cartel.

SR: Rob, you were telling me earlier that the cartel has recently visited the employee of one of the ranchers. Was that Rusty’s employee or someone else? (0:11:17.8)

RC: Rusty might be able to tell you the story better.

RM: What do you want me to tell you?

RC: Your gravel partner

RM: (0:11:36.5) This guy’s been here 30, 35 years. He has a small trucking company, with some equipment. I have a small sand pit out here, we sell sand and dirt and take in broken concrete in a 3 acre hole. He was out talking to a contractor. A couple of 21 year old kids come up and told him off, he needs to watch out about getting more sand and dirt from here, cause I was on their list. If he wasn’t careful, they were gonna go after his family. He’s 66 years old, he’s got 7 kids, all married, all with kids, a couple of grandkids on the way, they all live on the same (0:12:46.3) 6 acres. They all have their own homes. I asked him what the deal was, and he said I’m gonna have to be real careful about getting in there. They warned him, if they see him and he comes in too often, they’ll take out his whole family.  (0:13:07.1)

SR: These are cartel soldiers?

RM: Yep. I have family history, my dad was involved in the revolution in Mexico, he was an anglo. I had an extended family in Mexico, because he was married there for about 6 years. The last step-cousins I had, 2 months ago were living in Monterrey, they went down to (0:13:39.6) Saltillo for a long weekend with friends, kids, and pets. (0:13:50.6) At the dinner table, the cartel came in through the front door, shot Jose, his wife, four kids, and the pets. They bowed to everybody else and walked out. 

SR: (0:14:31.3) This was in a restaurant or a private home?

RM: Private home. 

SR: Why did they do that?

RM: They were after Jose because he wouldn’t knuckle under to them in Monterrey. He was an independent businessman and wouldn’t pay them off.

SR: (0:14:48.8) Explain to folks were Monterrey is.

RM: It’s about 2.5 to 3 hours.

SR: It’s on the Mexican side of the border, correct?

RM: Yes. 

SR: This is the same cartel that’s been threatening you and your neighbors.

RM: Yeah (0:15:14.9).

SR: These guys don’t mess around. Our condolences on the death of your family members.

RM: What makes this so damn bad is that they do this with absolute impunity. They don’t give a rat’s one way or the other.

SR: When did this happen? When were Jose and his family killed?

RM: (0:15:41.3) About 2 months ago. Here’s the thing. I’m Hungarian and German. On my mother’s side, Gypsy. Years ago, I found out I had a lot of cousins on both sides of the family in Europe during WW2. Because they were Gypsy, they were gathered up with Jews, same way. They marched them to the ovens in Auschwitz and Dachau (0:16:21.6). Back in ’53, the Nagee family, it was a big family in Budapest, they were fighting with the Russians during the Budapest uprising. I had a bunch of cousins 12-19 years old, boys and girls, caught sabotaging the Russian tanks. A squad of Russian soldiers gathered them up and machine-gunned the whole goddam bunch. (0:16:58.8) As they were being shot, as one unit they flipped off the Russian soldiers. That was their last act of defiance. Alright? There’s no back up in me, not anymore. (0:17:29.8) As a final insult, they took the body parts and dumped them in a ditch on the road to Budapest, FBI records. I’m sorry, I’m emotional.

SR: You’re okay man, we understand. (0:18:04.2) What would you say to the American people right now, given all of this and you’re personal resolve? What’s your message to all the veterans out there?

RM: These bastards are going through the valley. They’re sending people up to Houston, St. Louis, any town where they’ve got a population over 10 people. They’re going up north to your backyards, they’re gonna be your neighbors. Think about it if you work at night, or go to bowling league, your wife and kids and grandkids, the same guys are gonna walk in on your family. What the hell are you gonna do about it? (0:18:52.5) You gonna come home and cry? Or are you gonna do something now before it gets to that point? I’m doing my crying all the day. That’s my message, they’re goin to your backyard, you got a chance to stop it. You either stand back or you go forward, there’s no back up in me. I want somebody to join me. Don’t back up to these bastards. We’ve got too much to lose (0:19:24.1). Don’t lose as much as I have, please.

SR: Your family ranch has been there how long?

RM: Mom and dad bought it in 1940. I’m the last of the Mohicans, so to speak, here in Texas. The rest of the family is in Missouri.

SR: And your neighbors, what’s going on with them? Are they standing firm?

RM: They’re standing firm. One woman was a war bride from WW2, from Britain, came here when she was 16 to get married to John Taylor. She’s lived in the same location ever since, since 1947. (0:20:20.2)

SR: She met John when he was serving over in Europe?

RM: Yep. She was doing volunteer work in a hospital. I can name any number of people, same way. John Taylor’s family has been here since Zachary Taylor went down to Mexico, from within 100 yards of where his house is now. 

RC: Hey Rusty, can you tell us about Fern, the other rancher whose property we’re helping patrol? (0:21:12.9)

RM: Oh, Fernando. He’s about 1.5 from us. He’s almost against the fence. He was in the service, a fireman, fell through a second story floor, broke his back. He’s got his wife and kids there. They go through at night, turn his livestock loose, and he gets out there with his son, and he’s messed up. And he gets in there, he’s had physical fights with them (0:22:00.6). He goes out armed. His son carries an SKS. They both have permits to carry. He called over here one night that he saw 3 of them in the backyard, and the boys went over, turned out there wasn’t 3 there was 11. (0:22:36.2) The boys circled around the backside, cut off their run, the Border Patrol picked up the group. This is almost a daily, nightly routine for him. When he goes to town, he calls the guys and they go over and babysit (0:22:56.3). If there’s somebody at home, they stay closer, if not they go out a bit.

SR: (0:23:02.1) You’re talking about Rob and his volunteers?

RM: Yep.

SR: I wanna stress, this is not about race. I’m part Mexican myself, my family are migrant farm workers on my mother’s side. They picked grapes until I was in high school. This is about protecting the lives and liberty and property of people all along the border and in other parts of the country, of any race (0:23:28.7). We’ve got people on the US side of Mexican descent, Fernando for example, who are being threatened by the cartel, trying to get lawlessness and murder like we’ve seen down in Mexico. This is about stopping the cartel. (0:23:46.9)

RC: A few weeks ago, Fernando has a small farm, about 5 acres, he has some shelters out there for goats and horses. He was out there feeding the animals, and he had his 5 year old, a real outdoorsy kid, his kid was on one side of the shelter, and Fernando was on the other side. He turned around (0:24:20.5) and there was an illegal going towards his kid, to get his kid. That’s how ballsy they are down there. He ran him off, actually shot at him, that’s how he ran him off. (0:24:44.2)

RM: One thing y’all need to understand: they literally steal kids. Depending on how good looking they are, they’re gonna start at $35-45k. Blonde-haired, blue-eyed little boy or girl, $50-75k. The older they are, the more the price goes up. There’s some girls that have been missing 5 years from Brownsville, they were stolen when they were 13. One of them was found in a whorehouse in Mexico City. Her family bought her out for a million 5.

RC: (0:25:33.3) One thing I’ve noticed down there. I have the Amber Alert app on my phone, it goes off daily. I live in Indiana, it’s rare, you see it once or twice a year.
## AmberALert.gov report indicates that there were 33 Amber Alerts in Texas during 2014.
RC: When you’re on the border in Texas, it’s going off every day multiple times.

SR: (0:25:52.0) The cartel is stealing these children and forcing them into prostitution.

RM: Or using them for forced labor, anything you can think of. The orient, even in Japan they buy the kids. You’ve got the cartel in Japan, too.

SR: Rusty, you recently got a message from a guy who used to be in the cartel that you’re number 5 in your area?

RM: He’s from Mexico, he had to leave, he sold all his businesses to come, he got a Green Card. He told me, I can’t be seen with you anymore unless we meet somewhere where there aren’t too many people. I asked him why, he said because you’re number 5 on the list. I said that makes me pretty important. He said we can stay in touch on the phone, maybe have coffee or something, but they’ll get me too.

SR: Number 5 on the list of all Texans, or on the list of people in your area? (0:27:24.3)

RM: I don’t know.

SR: Go ahead Rob.

RC: I wanna tell the people about Rusty (0:27:35.3). A lot of people are silent or turn their heads to things that are happening on the border. Rusty is not that guy. He’s outspoken in the local community and even has stuff written on his truck. If Rusty says he has no back down, he has no back down. I’ve been down there when vans drive by and open the side door and yell and point. I don’t know what they were saying because I don’t understand Spanish. It’s a target location at Rusty’s, because he is so outspoken.

SR: (0:28:30.0) You told me you witnessed something at one of the bridges, with cartels threatening the Border Patrol with AK-47s.

RC: (0:28:40.6) I spent a few days down at the international bridge, it’s about 3 miles long, there’s no water underneath. There’s a van that came up to the US checkpoint. 2 men came out with AK-47s. Held the Border Patrol at gun point, unloaded their van, once the people who got out of their van were gone, they got back in the van and went back to Mexico. (0:29:20.1)

SR: You broke up there. So they unloaded the illegals from the back of the van and held up the Border Patrol at gun point while they did this, correct?

RC: Correct.
 SR: You guys were ¼ mile away, watching through binoculars. 

RC: Yep

SR: (0:29:39.4) This was on US soil, right?

RC: Correct

SR: What other incidents have you learned about on US soil, the cartels threatening to kill the Border Patrol or trying to kill them?

RC: In the last few days, just to the east of where we’re patrolling, they have cartel pushing them back, they’re using hand grenades to push the Border Patrol back.

SR: So they’re throwing hand grenades at them?

RC: Yes.

SR: We’re talking high-explosive hand grenades? 

RC: Yeah. They’re not rocks, they’re hand grenades.

SR: They’re not flashbangs?

RC: No. (0:30:33.7) South of the border, they have found RPGs, hand grenades, stuff like that inside of buildings.

SR: You mean in the cartel controlled area just south of the border?

RC: Yeah.

SR: And they’re throwing fragmentary hand grenades at the border patrol on US soil?

RC: Correct

SR: How far in are they when they’re doing this? (0:31:00.9)

RC: No more than ½ mile. From what I understand, it’s right at the river. 

SR: They’re making the Border Patrol back off so they can bring people across?

RC: I think it’s mostly drugs in that area.

SR: On that topic, (0:31:18.2) we’re talking about drugs and people being trafficked?

RC: Correct

SR: As Rusty was saying, you’re getting a lot of OTMs, other than Mexicans, and a lot of them are not even Central Americans, a lot are Middle Eastern and Ethiopian and from all over the world. 

RC: I have personally chased, well we had 6 of them on Rusty’s property (0:31:46.0). Behind Rusty’s property. We chased them and the Border Patrol ended up catching them up at the school. That was a few weeks ago. I know for a fact…

SR: Who were they? (0:32:02.0)

RC: All I know is they were Muslim. I wasn’t given much info, but they told me they had caught 11 of the same group a week prior that had been on our US terror wanted list, not watch list but wanted list. They’re not releasing it to the public, they’re not allowed to release it.

SR: (0:32:33.8) So 11 Muslims who were on the terrorist watch list. 

RC: Not watch list, wanted list.

SR: The wanted list, came through.

RC: Yep. That was for acts of terrorism against the US. They’ve already committed acts of violence against the US or embassies. We don’t know what kind of violence they’ve done, or crimes they’ve committed. They were on the wanted list.

SR: What happened to them? (0:33:09.4)

RC: They were caught and turned over to Homeland Security. Then everything disappeared, like Rusty was saying. None of that is public information or anything like that. They don’t want it to be public.

SR: There’s a gag order on the Border Patrol. They cannot tell anyone that this is happening. That we have known terrorists coming across the border.

RC: Yep. They’re not even allowed to speak on. The only thing we hear about is women and kids, when I say we I mean the American public, the mainstream media. The women and the kids and huge drug busts. We don’t hear about the gang bangers coming across. We don’t hear about the terrorists coming across. We don’t hear about the violence on the border. A rancher called me last week, begging for help on 15,000 acres. He moved off his ranch with his family because he doesn’t feel safe, he’s been shot at and threatened. (0:34:09.7) We don’t hear that. 

SR: How long ago did he move off his ranch?

RC: 2 weeks ago, I believe.

SR: How long has he been ranching there?

RC: I don’t know. I’m gonna talk to him this week about it (0:34:24.9)

SR: He’s now pulled his family out.

RC: Yeah, he doesn’t live on the border anymore. He moved inland away from the violence. 

SR: So they’re being run off their land. You have American ranchers, probably been there for generations, now being run off their land by the cartels. 

RC: Yep

SR: The cartels are pushing, they’re taking over the ranches, basically. (0:34:49.2)

RC: Yep. You’re having that all along the border. People like Rusty are sticking by it and not backing down. Who’s gonna wanna buy Rusty’s house or Fernando’s house, with the violence going on by the border. They can’t afford to sell their house and move. (0:35:08.1) They’re forced to abandon it and move away, or else stand their ground.

SR: You were telling me that the Border Patrol has crazy rules of engagement, rules of non-engagement, that require them not to make any contact with an armed cartel member, correct?

RC: Yep. They can’t make contact with any armed person, armed terrorist, armed cartel, armed MS-13 coming across the border, they’re not allowed to make contact with them. They have to call DPS.

SR: Texas Department of Public Safety, right?

RC: Yes. (0:35:52.0) They come out and arrest them on criminal charges.

SR: What’s their response time?

RC: Maybe a few hours.

SR: So in other words, it doesn’t happen.

RC: Yeah, it doesn’t happen. It’s complete bogus. There’s also official wildlife [garbled] owned by BLM that nobody is allowed to go on. Border Patrol isn’t even allowed to chase people on it.

SR: Where’s that? (0:36:25.5) In relation to where you all are right now.

RC: Rusty?

RM: About ¾ of a mile from us.

RC: Yeah, ¾ of a mile. (0:36:36.9) We actually do patrol between that and the river. Border Patrol does as well, but they’re not supposed to. There’s a joke down there that the only people allowed on that land are the illegal immigrants. (0:36:53.3)

SR: How big an area is that?

RM: Somewhere around a section, a section and a half.

RC: How many acres?

RM: A section is 640 acres (0:37:10.7), so probably 850-900 acres.

SR: How big a section of the border is that, how wide?

RM: Mile and a half.

SR: So a mile and a half that the BLM owns, that they’ve told the Border Patrol and Texas DPS that they’re not allowed on?

RC: I believe Texas DPS is. I’ve been told Border Patrol gets flack when they get on there. 

SR: What has been the response or lack of response from Texas? (0:37:49.6) Have you seen anything from Governor Perry, the National Guard, or Texas State Guard?

RC: No. 

RM: The Texas State Guard are in these cheap, flimsy, probably Chinese made watchtowers. They’re not bulletproof, they’ve got glass on 4 sides. And they posted them to McAllen, the north end of the Valley, to Laredo, which is about 200 miles. (0:38:20.2) They’re not down here south. When Texas Guard is down here, they’re not allowed to carry sidearms at all.

SR: Are you talking about the Texas National Guard or the Texas State Guard? It’s two different entities.

RM: The Texas National Guard is not allowed to carry weapons. That was written out by Obama (0:38:49.1). Going back to what Rob was saying about these weapons. Matamoros chased some kids into a warehouse, the kids went in one door and out the other. They went into the warehouse and found cases with Chinese lettering on them. They opened them and found cases of RPGs, cases of launchers, of AK-47s, bulk cases of ammunition, loaders, empty mags, way in the back they found 400+ pounds of Semtex, detonators, remote control devices, you name it. (0:39:39.7)

SR: This is on the Mexican side of the border, how far away?

RM: A mile. This stuff is coming in through China. Mexico is not buying it, China is supplying it free. It’s coming from Puerto Vallarta and Tampico. 

SR: China is sending this stuff to the cartels? (0:40:09.9)

RM: Yeah. I know of 11 training camps in Mexico for the jihad. (0:40:20.5) There is a Hamas training camp 1.5 hours from Del Rio, Texas, in Mexico. There is another Hamas training camp, well publicized, it’s a kids summer camp, 45 minutes from Beaumont, but the real camp is in what we call the Big Thicket of Texas, and that is protected by federal people, again under the protection of Fearless Leader.

SR: It’s where, you said? (0:40:51.3)

RM: North of Houston, in what we call the Big Thicket, which is south of Lufkin right around Marshall.

SR: On the Texas side of the border. Above Houston, Texas.

RM: I’m talking north of Houston, Texas. (0:41:09.9) These other camps are in Mexico, but they’re in close range. I’ll tell you this. In Zapata County going up towards Eagle Pass, on the other side of Laredo, where the cartel has taken over the ranches. They’ve converted the ranch roads into landing strips. There’s a guy who flies in a 737, they’ve lengthened the road so he can come in and keep the engines running and move along at 25-35 mph. Empty trucks come along and get the dope out of the plane. When he’s empty, he hits the throttle and goes back to Mexico.

SR: You said this is just south of Laredo? (0:42:04.8)

RM: This is between Falcon Lake, in Zapata County, going as far as Eagle Pass, which is north, which is west of Laredo in Maverick County. I know this because my brother was game warden up there (0:42:22.8).

SR: Back to the training camps in Mexico. How did you learn about that?

RM: It was a special agent for the Customs department in Brownsville. He was friends with the family, and he showed me the map. Hank’s been dead now for 6 years. This was back when he was in the office, so 2002. This camp had already been in existence that he knew of from satellite photos for at least 5 years. So that predates 2001. (0:43:10.8)

SR: This is the Mexican side of the border, right?

RM: Absolutely. From the Gulf of Mexico to the Gulf of Baja California. They’ve got neighbors and cousins that live on this side, and they come to me, I’m a magnet for them. They’ll talk to me, they won’t talk to anybody else. The people I get info from at the agency, they do it on a night basis, turn the lights off, stay in the shadows, I walk up and talk to them, I don’t know who I’m talking to. (0:43:50.2) Even if I did, I wouldn’t admit to it. 

RC: There are locations throughout Texas, if they see what they’re doing, they’ll feel us out and give us information. They want to get this out there to the public. Like the 11 people caught on the wanted list. A week ago I had one of them tell me that they’d taken most of their arresting rights away from them. (0:44:38.0) They said it feels like we’re out here to watch them and that’s about it. 

SR: They’ve been told directly that they should not intercede with anyone carrying a firearm. They should instead call Texas DPS, who takes 2 hours to get there. So they’re basically being told to stand down and let armed men cross into the US. The cartel can bring armed guys across at will (0:45:03.6).

RC: Yep.

SR: What’s the ratio of grown men to women and children that you see coming across? (0:45:14.5)

RC: I’ve encountered close to 100 on the river. I’ve seen 2 women. And the youngest I’ve seen was probably 10 years old. He was with a group of men from 15-35.

SR: How many hundred have you seen? 

RC: I’ve encountered right around 100 that have been trying to cross the river.

SR: This is in the span of how much time? (0:45:52.8)

RC: I’ve patrolled probably 20 hours total.

SR: You’ve been there how many weeks?

RC: I was down there for, 2 five days, so 10 days.

SR: In that time span, you saw about 100 people come across, and only 2 women and 1 child in the whole group. (0:46:22.0)

RC: Correct.

SR: The rest were male, 15-35.

RC: Yep.

RM: You figure that 1 mile of road is worth 3.5 miles of river, because of the bends in it. You can use that a multiplier of between here and the bridge, roughly a mile and a half, you figure that’s 5 miles of river. There’s not an hour that goes by that you can’t go down to the river and look across and see people, predominantly men, waiting to come in. Now, I don’t know if they’re here to work. But if they’re here to work, they have the funniest haircut, they’re not long. They look like what you might expect on a recon unit (0:47:35.9). They’ve got all the cartel tattoos, so they’re not here to work either. Now they’re training the women to be as aggressive or more aggressive and dangerous than the men, and they train them younger. As a family man, a Border Patrolman, he walks up on a couple of kids, 14 or 15 years old, let’s say both are girls, he’s gonna let his guard down. And they’ve got him dead to rights. (0:48:16.7)

[Can’t tell who says this]: Has that happened?

RM: It’s happened.

RC: Tell them about the rancher who encountered a 14 year old with a sword.

RM: We’ve had ranchers coming up on kids. One was caught in Matamoros, but he had been in Brownsville, he was wanted for 12 murders. He was good with a knife. He was 12 years old. This is what we’ve got coming across too (0:49:08.3). Most of your law enforcement of some kind, you walk up on a kid 12 or 13 years old, you’re not gonna suspect he’s gonna jump up and cut your throat, he’ll get up close to you and do you in. They know that psychologically, Americans are usually easy going with kids. That’s one of the tricks they use effectively. (0:49:37.9)

RC: Someone else told me the story of a rancher who was out mending a fence, later at night, the sun was setting. He caught a shadow out of the corner of his eye, he turned around, and there was someone coming towards him with a sword or a weapon in his hand. He told him to stop, he wouldn’t stop, so he ended up shooting him. Didn’t kill him. Border Patrol was the first to show up, they asked him what he was doing with the sword. He said I was gonna cut the man’s throat, they asked him why, he said because I thought he was Border Patrol. This kid turned out to be 14 years old.

RM: Rob, I gotta get off the phone (0:50:32.9).

RC: Okay.

SR: Rob, what else do people need to know?

RC: Our government is not gonna make a stand and protect us. At this point it’s our duty to go down there to protect us and our families. What’s it gonna be like in 10 or 15 years, when we have kids or grandkids? If this continues, we will lose all control of this country. We have ISIS already, we know they’ve been talking to cartel, and we know they want to come over here and kill us. They said so. They said they’re gonna raise a flag at the White House. To sit back and watch it happen, to hope and pray that someone else will do something about it, is extremely foolish. (0:51:20.9)

SR: What’s gonna happen for sure is that Rusty and his family and Fernando and his family are gonna be dead. 

RC: This is what we gotta realize about Rusty. He’s dying of two sorts of cancer right now. Doctor’s giving him 2 years. So he really doesn’t care if they come to his house and shoot him. He’s on a mission. (0:51:46.6)

## SR and RC speak over each other for a second

RC: He’s pretty much lost whatever he’s had. He doesn’t talk about it, but his children have cut communication with him because he is so outspoken and they’re fearful for his life, for their life. (0:52:00.0)

## SR and RC speak over each other again.

SR: So in his last couple years of life, he doesn’t even have family around because they’re too afraid of the cartel to be around him.

RC: That’s right. And he doesn’t really talk about it, but he gets really emotional when he does. He says if I don’t do something and try to get these people woke up down here, they’re gonna die anyway. That’s how he feels. We have terrorists and cartels coming in (0:52:32.5), and they don’t come in and negotiate. 

SR: Yeah, you’re not gonna reason with the cartel.

RC: Exactly.

SR: And a sit-in’s not gonna work, waving signs, or protest, or civil disobedience. They’ll just cut your head off. 

RC: Exactly. A Border Patrol agent told me, there’s only 1 reason our border is this open, no other explanation, but our president is absolutely worthless. And this is a Hispanic guy, the Border agent. He said our president has taken our equipment, everything we used to patrol with, we’re down here watching our country being taken by foreign people, and the only reason they’re coming here is for the Democratic vote. (0:53:37.1) He also said there’s no way you can have 30,000 people show up in 2 weeks, organize it from all these different countries, come up through Mexico with their immigration policy, and make it to the US without help. He strongly feels that the US government is financing these people coming here. That’s his opinion, he has more knowledge about what’s going on than I do, that’s why I’m sharing that.

SR: I think it’s obvious (0:54:10.2) a 4GW attack on the US, to overload the system and bring in violent cartel members, MS-13, etc. That’s why there’s warehouses full of Chinese weapons on the other side.

RC: Exactly. What’s gonna happen when, hell it could happen tomorrow, when we start having terrorist attacks, and they find out we’re full of terrorists and cartel in this country, declare martial law because nobody’s safe and we have to do that to keep you safe (0:54:47.1).

SR: Right, so it’s maximum chaos as possible, then everyone clamors for protection. They say the only solution now is to take your guns and curtail your rights to root out the bad guys.

RC: Absolutely (0:55:04.3). The first time I went down to the border, what I thought I would encounter is not what I encountered. I figured I’d encounter women and kids, families coming across. I have not seen that at all. Hearing the stories from ranch owners on the border, seeing what’s coming across, having the cartel – when I see them on the river, I make contact with them and talk to them – they told me, I asked why you’re bringing people and drugs in. They said we don’t like the US (0:55:42.0) but it’s a beautiful country and it’s a duty to our country to do what we’re doing.

SR: This is cartel members on the river you talk to?

RC: Yes (0:55:55.3)

SR: They said it’s a duty to their country, you mean Mexico, right?

RC: Yep

SR: For them to bring people into the US.

RC: Yep. It’s a duty to their country. You have the Texas National Guard down there between Laredo and McAllen in their watchtowers. And you have the Mexican president coming out, upset about it, and they have protests on the other side of the border.

SR: The Texas National Guard is nowhere near where you’re at. They’re doing nothing to stop what you’ve been talking about.

RC: Exactly. Sometimes there’s hours where there’s no border patrol agent within 2 miles, because they’re helping other agents run down a group that’s come across. You’ll have a small group come in, then a mile down the road you have a group that’s 30-50 come in. (0:56:53.7)

SR: But Perry’s call to the Texas National Guard has only brought what, 1k guys, down to the border. They’re all in one section, and they’re not doing anything to protect Rusty or Fernando or any other ranchers. Is that right? 

RC: (0:57:09.6) No. Calling out 1k National Guard was a purely political move on Perry’s part. He wanted to do that so people would say, okay, we have National Guard down there now, we’re safe. 

SR: It’s all smoke and mirrors. (0:57:28.5)

RC: Yes.

SR: Todd, you want to add to that?

TB: Yesterday, I called Perry’s office and tried to explain what’s going on down here again. I told the secretary the deal [can’t understand a couple words], she said is that important, I said yeah I think so. She said I don’t understand (0:57:52.1). I said y’all are living in ivory towers, you’re living a mile off the ground. You need to start taking sight of what’s taking place, they’re going through to Austin to San Antonio, they’re coming into your backyard, they’re going to move into your garage with you. When things get tough, and some guy is holding you to the wall with a knife to your throat, you’re gonna remember I said y’all need to do something (0:58:25.1). She got real quiet. She said I’m taking it down word for word. I said I hope so, and I hope it doesn’t go in the trash.

SR: Here’s the question. What do you need down there? How big an area are you and your guys patrolling, Rob? You got how many guys? Do you mind saying, and how big an area?

RC: We got right around 12.

SR: So you’ve got a squad. They’re covering what span of area?

RC: I think it’s 6 river miles, 3 road miles. But we have a lot more area that we need to cover, but we can’t because we don’t have the people (0:59:13.5). Boots in the ground is what we need, desperately.

SR: How many people do you need, boots on the ground?

RC: We could use 5k people, with what we have down here. There’s thousands of people needed, let’s put it that way. We have ranchers call us every week begging us to send people to protect them and their property, but we can’t because we don’t have the people to do it. (0:59:45.8)

SR: Yesterday, you were telling me you need at least 300 to secure the ranches that have been asking you for help.

RC: Right, we have from Rusty’s to the mouth of the river if we get enough people. But 12 guys doing patrols of 3 24 hours a day, in 110 degrees, that wears the guys down. (1:00:15.5)

TB: The guys are rotating out, and in between rotations, maybe a day or 2, you get maybe 5 guys. Divide that by 3 shifts, then you gotta have fire watch and patrol. You see what Rob’s talking about in terms of square mileage. You’re looking at from 10-12 square miles. And you’re putting 5 men out there, divided by 3? Hell, these guys are thinner than the Border Patrol.

RC: (1:01:07.7) Border Patrol loves us down there, they’re beggin for more help.

TB: They are. I talked to the Senior yesterday (1:01:15.9). It was on the QT, he called me on his own cell phone. He said if you can get us more people, get down here. He said if they are half as good as Rusty’s Rangers, as far as we’re concerned, they’re angels. (1:01:39.8) These guys are begging for help. There was this attrition deal when Obama cut the budget on the Border Patrol. There were patrolmen who worked under their own power, their own vehicles, their own money, for almost 3 months. They weren’t getting paid. Their wife went to work to cover the expenses at home. These guys cared enough (1:02:03.2) that they were out here, a lot of them working 12-16 hour shifts. If you hear from some jackass that the Border Patrol are overpaid, I got news. I seen em, I know em. They’re one of the reasons I’m still alive today.

SR: (1:02:28.4) The Border Patrol is asking you to bring more people in, is that right?

TB: Yep. They can’t do it publicly, but they ask me and I pass it to you.

RC: Todd, I’ve had them ask me personally as well. (1:02:43.4) Can you guys please help us with another 6 miles. And we have to tell them no because we don’t have the men. I have 5 other ranches right now that are begging for help, but I promised Rusty that I’d be with him. I can’t leave him.

SR: Rob, you’re from Indiana (1:03:10.0), and you brought a combat vet with you, also from Indiana, who’s been taking a lead running your squad, right?

RC: Correct.

SR: How many other guys are out-of-state?

RC: We have a guy from Louisiana, we have a guy from Alabama, we have one Texan. And 5 from Indiana. Then local people come in and make up the rest of the squad. (1:03:43.7) We have people coming and going from Indiana all the time.

SR: How many Texans do you have?

RC: One.

SR: I can’t believe that.

RC: One full-time Texan and then some locals that come by and help. We have a couple Hispanic locals that help. (1:04:06.2)

SR: So you have one Texas veteran helping you out. [laughs]

RC: Yep. We were at a meeting with a bunch of Texans, and even on social media we’ve voiced our opinion on it. We’ve got a lot of slack for voicing our opinion. We get, why are you guys down here, why don’t you give us that property and you guys go back home. (1:04:32.9) We tried that. We’ve been sitting here for 10 years and now we have them in our backyard. I grew up in a quiet little town here and now there’s drive-by shootings and all sorts of stuff going on with MS-13.

SR: In Indiana?

RC: Yeah. That’s why we’re down on the border. [Can’t make out a sentence] We want Texans down there, we need Texans down there. 

SR: Well you’d probably be happy to go home if they’d show up and take your place (1:05:05.9).

RC: Exactly. I have family and a couple businesses back home. If we can get locals down here, we can go home and take care of our families and stuff.

SR: You have a firearms industry business, 1776 armory?
 RC: I do.

SR: You build ARs and AR-10s?

RC: Yep

SR: You had to put that on hold to go down and guard the border. (1:05:36.3)

RC: Yeah, that’s a fairly new business. I have other businesses as well. I have 2 businesses on hold and I got 6 kids.

SR: [First few words I can’t make out]. You shouldn’t have to have guys from Indiana coming down there to guard Texas and secure the border.

RC: No honestly I felt bad. 

SR: They should be ashamed.

RC: I go to Texas, I do a lot of business in Texas. I couldn’t believe that Texans weren’t stepping up to the plate like I thought they would.

SR: (1:06:12.0) I think they’re waiting for competent leadership. So I’m hoping that we see some retired Texas officers and experienced NCOs and infantry NCOs stepping up.

RC: That would be great.

SR: It needs to happen, provide good competent leadership.

TB: We got some veterans here from Texas, but they’re older than I am. We got a guy who’s 73 working on vehicles as a mechanic. He was out here yesterday. It’s all he can do to hobble around. Another guy spent 8 years on the George Washington. I got another from Vietnam, he’s got 4 kinds of cancer, he tried to come about but he collapsed on the driveway. His wife and the neighbors got him back in the house. He wanted to come out. There are a lot of older veterans from the old strain. They want to come out, they can do a lot of yard duty and camp duty, but they can’t get out and patrol. We need boots, young guys. Somebody to stop watching the video, stop playing the games, to stand up and say hey, it’s my country it’s my state too. (1:07:46.4) Embarrass them, I call them wimps, among other things, cause I’m being polite. Maybe you all call them wussies or something. What did Schwarzenegger call them, sissy boys? Maybe half of them [hard to understand, maybe wear lace underwear] I could give a damn if they come down and stand their watch. I’ll shut up.

SR: You need young veterans. I think the duty is on the veterans first and foremost. You got the training and knowledge. If you’re a Texas veteran and you’re still fit and can get down there, you need to get down there. The older guys can only do so much, they provide the competent leadership. The non-vets who go down there under their leadership can be effective. Texas veterans need to (1:08:39.7) step up.

RC: I would love to see that happen.

TB: If somebody comes down from Texas or another state, I’m gonna get some cigarette money and shit like that, and veterans made up, I’ll give you one.

SR: We’ll see what we can do. We think it’s important for this message to get out, especially in Texas but in the whole country, but especially along the border. (1:09:15.4) In particular all the different veterans organizations, their commanders and vice-commanders need to sit their guys down and play this interview, understand what’s going on, saddle up and come down. We need competent Texas veterans, officers and NCOs, experienced leadership. (1:09:53.9) We’ll see what we can do to make that happen. Anything else you guys want to say to the American people about this to close?

TB: Texas is part of the US. It may be the biggest state, but we’re catching a lot of hell and we’re watching up for y’all. Here in Texas, the rest of you sissy boys, we need help. We all gotta start doing something, the clock is ticking. I don’t want to see the point where [can’t understand the rest of this sentence]. I’ll shut up. Rob, be safe. Everyone up there, God bless, take care.

SR: Rob, any closing comments? (1:11:01.0)

RC: We know who’s coming across, we don’t know how many, we don’t know where they’re going. We need people down there, nobody else is gonna do it. Let’s not sit back at home until we have somebody come to our house or something happens here in America, another terrorist act or whatever. Let’s do what’s right and what’s needed to be done: boots on the ground and on the border protect those who can’t protect themselves.

SR: Have you been successful with your squad in shutting down cartel activity on that 6 mile stretch?

RC: Absolutely. We’re right on the river. The Border Patrol patrols about a mile off the river, that’s where their resources are. The fence is a half mile, a mile, in some spots 3 miles off the river. We need to stop them before they get to the fence, before they get on US soil. (1:12:29.2) Once they get here, if they get caught, they get booked, released. They’re not showing up in court. 

SR: When you’re on the river and people are coming across and they see you, what do they do?

RC: (1:13:00.3) We make contact with them and turn them back.

SR: And they turn back?

RC: Absolutely. 

SR: Any of them been armed yet?

RC: One group was armed. One group of between 30 and 50, they had armed coyotes when they went down to the river.

SR: What happened when you encountered them? (1:13:29.2)

RC: First, one guy went around the bushes, they only saw one of us and they kept right on coming. I think I was in the group that morning. He yelled at us, then we stood in a line in front of the river, then they turned around and went back.

SR: How many conversations have you had with coyotes, just that one? (1:13:53.2)

RC: Yeah, just the one. 

SR: What was that conversation like?

RC: He was by himself on the river. He saw us park and start doing surveillance. He got on the cell phone and a minute later about 10 more showed up. They were yelling at me and whatever. I had a conversation with one, he was asking who we are and why we won’t let anybody across anymore. I asked him why they want to bring people and drugs across. He just said they don’t like the US and it’s their duty to their country.

SR: They don’t like the US and it’s a duty to their country. (1:14:54.4)

RC: Yep

TB: Does this mean they want to take back the southern states? They still believe that’s part of Mexico? That they have a right to it.

RC: That’s the only thing I could get out of that. I don’t know if it was a money thing. Let’s face it, Mexico doesn’t have a middle class. (1:15:24.8) It’s either the land issue or the money, I’m not sure. He wouldn’t elaborate on it at all.

SR: Well they don’t like the US and it’s a duty to their country, it kinda sounds like that. The Reconquista mindset (1:15:44.5).

SR: Elias, do you have any questions.

EA: In the past, there was an Aztlan movement that operated under the umbrella of La Raza. Have you seen any signs of that old movement?

SR: That’s the Reconquista mindset, the idea that this is Old Mexico and should still be Mexico, that they should take it back (1:16:28.8). That’s one of the driving forces of groups like La Raza. 

RC: I’ve heard a lot about La Raza. I haven’t really encountered anything, but Rusty woulda been the guy to answer that question. He talks to a lot of people down here (1:16:46.0). He’s either hated or loved.

SR: Who’s he hated by?

RC: The people helping the illegals come across (1:17:00.2). There are people on this side who profit off the smuggling as well. They house them, give them a ride, feed them, give them water. We know which houses do that. Border Patrol knows. (1:17:15.2) They’re not allowed to do any surveillance on those houses, we were asked to do that. They said we’re allowed to but they’re not.

SR: How heavy is the cartel presence on the Texas side of the border?

RC: It’s very heavy.

SR: He was talking about entire roads being taken over by them and used as landing strips.

RC: Oh yeah, ranches, roads, subdivisions that are all cartel.

SR: They control neighborhoods.

RC: Yep, exactly (1:17:59.1)

EA: Where exactly on the Rio Grande are you operating? He mentioned Houston earlier, but that’s well above the river. Can you tell me where in relation to Brownsville you work?

RC: We’re about 10 minutes from the border checkpoint.

SR: At Brownsville?

RC: Yeah (1:18:37.6)

SR: West or east?

RC: East.

SR: You said it’s about 2 miles away, right?

RC: Our basecamp is about ¾ mile off the river.

SR: How far are you from the Brownsville checkpoint, miles?

RC: Across the field, 3 miles. 

SR: Okay, you’re right there on the outskirts of Brownsville.

RC: Yep. (1:19:14.3)

SR: And you have a rancher with 15,000 acres who asked you for help?

RC: Yep. He’s in McAllen.

SR: How far is Brownsville from McAllen?

RC: I’m not sure, I think like an hour, hour and a half.

SR: (1:19:55.4) Rob, you’re an OK from Indiana, you were at Bundy Ranch, I saw you. What’s your advice to people who want to come volunteer, given your experience at Bundy Ranch and now at the border?

RC: Leave your ego at home. Follow whatever command structure is there. If you go to another ranch, find a commander and everyone follow that person. What happens at that location stays at that location. The infighting that’s happened, in places and on social media, is unacceptable. (1:20:55.6) We’ll never get anything done with that kind of foolishness.

SR: A big lesson for us is that there needs to be competent local leadership. If there’s a vacuum, you’re vulnerable to unknowns from outside who have their own agenda. (1:21:24.7) Texans needs to step up and provide competent leadership so guys like you don’t have to come from Indiana to do it. That’s ridiculous that you have to bring a combat vet from Indiana to provide leadership. 

RC: I agree with that.

TB: If a guy wants to rotate in and help out, what kind of gear do you need?

RC: Body armor (1:22:02.5), his weapon of choice, and [can’t make 2 words]. That’s all you need. We have comms, food, water – which is being donated to us now. We have a house with AC in it, but it’s full of supplies and command staff. We have a room in there that we can lock a weapon in, if someone wants to go to a hotel and doesn’t want to take their weapon. (1:22:50.2) Night optics are huge. We have a couple thermal units and a couple of night vision units, but if you have them bring em. If you have a UTV or something other than a personal vehicle. We’ve been asked not to take personal vehicles on patrol because they can’t discern the difference between that and a drug runner or someone picking up illegals. We want UTVs, ATVs and stuff like that.

SR: How closely are you working with the Border Patrol? (1:23:40.6)

RC: Let’s just say we have a very good relationship. We’re supported by them. I’ve been asked not to elaborate.

SR: Okay. But it’s favorable and they’re in support of what you’re doing.

RC: Exactly. One problem we’ve had with people volunteering, who want to come have conversations with the Border Patrol. We can’t have that, we have particular people we’re talking to. They don’t know who we are, they only know a few of us. The more people you talk to, information’s gonna get out. 

SR: Right, the more likely it’s gonna be some undercover agent or whistleblower or whatever.

RC: Right, once that happens we lose their support (1:24:55.4), we get run off the border, then we have an open border again. 

SR: If you had a dream response, what would you like to see happen?

RC: I’d like to see all of Texas get covered first. I’d like a couple thousand people on the border, and some competent local Texas leaders. Get a bunch of Texans down there and other volunteers will fall underneath that and shut down that border. We have to make a statement. (1:25:30.0) Right now, both sides of our government are sitting there twiddling their thumbs. None of them are gonna move on anything. We need to hold Mexico accountable, too. We’re letting it happen, they’re letting it happen. 

SR: A boycott of all Mexican goods is the first thing we can do. (1:26:00.9)

RC: We’ve had congressman, sheriffs, mayors down here. We planned a group to shut down the ports in September. Just in Texas we have $500 billion of goods coming from Mexico to the US. The dollar amount going from the US into Mexico, we’re not sure of. We want to shut down the ports to force our government and the Mexican government to deal with the situation rather than putting it to the side. We can finance Ukraine to protect them from Russia but we can’t finance a fence to protect our citizens from terrorists (1:26:58.9).

SR: You have local elected politicians who are proposing this shut down?

RC: I actually proposed it to a politician that came on patrol with us. He jumped on board and is helping organize.

EA: You say you’re gonna shut down the ports in Houston?

RC: All the ports on the southern border. 

EA: Wow. You have support from at least a couple sheriffs?

RC: Yes we do. 

EA: (1:27:38.6) That’s a start. 

RC: I talk to the Texas Rangers on the 1st. They said they support us. On the 2nd we have a town hall meeting and a press release. 

SR: What town is that gonna be at?

RC: Brownsville (1:28:06.8). We’re gonna have locals speak about their experience with what’s happening at the border.

SR: How far is Brownsville from the Gulf?

RC: I don’t know. I fly in and fly out.

SR: You’re right there close, aren’t you?

RC: Yeah, we’re close. I know because we were asked to patrol to the mouth of the river. (1:28:32.8)

SR: Oh I gotcha. Where it dumps into the Gulf of Mexico.

EA: Brownsville is the lowest part of Texas, right at the Gulf and the Mexican border.

SR: Right at the tip. I’m looking at a map now. So on the 2nd, that’s next Tuesday, you’re gonna have a town hall meeting and a press release. You’re gonna have local elected officials taking point on this and calling for a boycott and shutting down all the ports. All the bridges.

RC: Yep, we’re gonna just pull vehicles up and park them there (1:29:22.3). I’ve talked to a couple Port agents, supervisors. They supported it, thought it was a great idea. I didn’t think I’d get that support, but I did.

SR: Do you have a Facebook page? How are you going to spread that message? 

RC: We have a Facebook page and a website (1:29:46.6). We just built the website. Our Facebook page is called Shut It Down. Our website is www.shutdownallports.com. The phone number is 1(844)SHUT-PORT.
## There’s an SPLC article about how this didn’t happen.

SR: What do you want folks to do? What’s the thinking of the local assemblymen who are doing this?

RC: (1:31:23.8) For those who are able, come down and help. Bring your vehicle down and park it. Go on the website or Facebook page and select a port that you can help at (1:31:34.9). If you want to help organize, call that number.

SR: Are you targeting one day?

RC: We’re gonna do it on the 20th, and hopefully we get enough support that we can do it until changes start. September 20th at 8 o’clock.

SR: Why that date?

RC: (1:32:05.3) Monday is one of the busiest days down there. 

SR: You wanna have a national impact.

RC: Exactly. Local politicians think it will take less than 48 hours for the federal government to come up with a plan, because of the impact it’s gonna have economically on Mexico, too.

SR: So they’re hoping for a 48 hour window of pressure to get something done. 

RC: We’re trying to get the release of Tahmooressi happen too.

SR: Say more about that. That’s the US Marine being held in Mexican prison (1:32:58.9).

RC: We had a Marine that made a wrong turn, ended up going to Mexico. He called 911 when he realized his mistake. Nobody here came to help him. Our president hasn’t tried to help him. He’s released 5 terrorists from custody and traded them for a deserter, but we cannot get a Marine out of prison that made an honest mistake.

SR: Was he active duty? Or a veteran? (1:33:33.5)

RC: Active duty. Since he’s been in prison, he’s actually been called to duty, but he can’t go.

SR: You have an active duty Marine from Camp Pendleton who accidentally went in a lane going across the border, wasn’t able to turn around, they arrested him at the checkpoint for having a firearm in his car. (1:33:56.9) He’s rotting in a Mexican prison.

EA: He was actually moving and had all of his stuff in his truck with him. He wasn’t just on a joy ride, he was moving there. We really have to do something for that guy.

SR: Elias, you’re an old Marine, how do you feel about having a brother Marine stuck in a Mexican prison? (1:34:25.9)

EA: It’s not acceptable. We need to join forces to try to get him out of there. Back to shutting down the ports, are you gonna be running newspaper ads and radio spots to get public support in Brownsville and Houston?

RC: Absolutely. The town hall is gonna have a lot of press there. The press release at Veterans Memorial Park will have press too.

SR: What time and place is the town hall meeting in Brownsville.

RC: I can email you the exact address. It’s at 6pm in Brownsville. I’ll post location on the website and the Facebook page. (1:35:24.8)

SR: Send me a press release, we’ll post it on our website and send it out to our list, too.

RC: Yep. We need to take care of the border issue, and we need to get our Marine home.

SR: Agreed. We’ll put information out about him, too. It’s egregious. You’ve got a current serving Marine being held by a foreign government. It’s amazing that they’re doing nothing about it.

RC: Yeah, our president hasn’t even mentioned his name. 

SR: He doesn’t count. 

TB: It’s not really shocking.

RC: No, it’s just sad. 

SR: It is not shocking, given the state of our country. This is how bad it is. It’s kind of like the Brandon Robb situation, where they were holding that Marine with an illegitimate mental health hold in Virginia because of his Facebook posts. Thankfully a judge let him go, but there were Marines who were gonna bust him out. (1:37:03.5) I think it’s gonna happen here it eventually. 

RC: There’s a movement right now to go do that. This is the last straw. If this doesn’t work, guarantee there’s something gonna happen. I know this for a fact.

SR: I do too. (1:37:31.1) There are some very unhappy Marines out there. Just waiting to see if anything happens, cause if it doesn’t they’re gonna go get him. 

RC: I’ve had to physically hold a Marine friend back, who was geared up and ready to go. I said you can’t go by yourself. (1:37:58.9) Lots of people are ready to go, not just Marines. 

EA: Every American oughta be up in arms about this.

RC: Exactly.

SR: Our country has turned into a failed state. It’s being manufactured, intentionally turned into a failed state. Where the government no longer protects its own people at all, no longer protects its borders, and the whole point is to make it even more of a failed state. They want to destroy the country and make it a failed state, then they can manipulate that destruction and shape their vision of a new world. 
## The crisis, the future

## A few people talk over each other for a second

EA: That’s why Rob has the right idea with this shut the port business. If you hit these bastards with the money, that’s where they’ll pay attention. If you don’t mess with their money, they don’t care. (1:39:09.4)

RC: A news crew from Japan is gonna be here for the shutdown.

SR: We’re gonna blast this around, get as many Texans there as possible. We want to get Texans and other folks out for your town hall meeting to galvanize support and get folks out there for the 20th. (1:40:14.2) Rob, you’ve got the rancher with 15,000 acres who needs help, and at least 5 other ranchers?

RC: There’s a 15k acre ranch, a 2k acre ranch, and 3 others that are a couple hundred each. 

SR: These huge ranches, they don’t have the manpower to patrol, do they?

RC: Oh no. Some of the ranchers have abandoned it.

SR: So you’ve got foreign armed cartel members coming across on US soil. (1:40:57.6) Throwing live fragmentary hand grenades at Border Patrol. Coming across and jumping out of vans with AK-47s pointed at Border Patrol to unload a handful of illegals. You’ve got cartel taking over neighborhoods and ranches, creating landing strips on ranches and public roads in Texas, and warehouses full of Chinese weaponry, explosives and RPGs, right across the border, already staged a couple miles away. It’s no longer just about refugees, it never really was. This is an armed invasion. You’ve got people being smuggled in who are known terrorists, on an arrest list. 

RC: We didn’t cover the Mexican military. We’ve had Mexican military shoot at Border Patrol agents. More than once. (1:42:10.9)

SR: In your area of ops?

RC: The day after we left down by McAllen, they had been shot at. Mexico said it was the cartel, we think it was the military. Border Patrol said if you see any Mexican military activity, get out of the area because you’re about to get shot (1:42:34.2).

SR: It’s hard to tell them apart.

RC: Tanks and military vehicles show up. I mean the military works for the cartel, it’s basically controlled by the cartel.

SR: That’s why those people in Mexico had to form their own militia to take back their town. They had their daughters stolen by the cartel and forced into prostitution. They finally rose up because the police were not protecting them, the military was not protecting them because they’re all corrupt on the payroll of the cartel, and they had to do it themselves. This is a parallel with us. We have a government that’s failing to protect the American people, failing to protect the ranchers, both the state government and the federal government are failing intentionally. If we the people don’t do it, they’re gonna be murdered, and their daughters stolen and put into prostitution (1:43:34.7). The solution is the same as down there in Mexico.

RC: A lot of people here don’t want to face facts. They sit back and say they don’t believe it. Go down there and look and see what’s happening. You’ll be pissed when you see it. 

SR: We’ve been looking for local leadership in Texas. We’re planning on putting out a letter to VFW and Legion commanders as a start, prodding them to step up and provide leadership. Their commanders are elected by their men, they’ve basically got a unit right there. It’s important for Texans to be in the lead for things happening in Texas. We’ll see how we can help that happen (1:45:36.0).

RC: Texas and the US needs your help. So I appreciate it.

TB: Rob, how long have you been there at this point?

RC: I’ve been on the border since July on and off. I do 2 weeks, come home for 5 days, do 2 weeks, come home for 5 days. I was at [can’t understand] first, then I went to El Paso, then I’ve been at Brownsville for the last 3 weeks. I understand a lot of people have tried to do something. Finding a land owner or location that is willing to have people come in is hard to do (1:46:24.0). Until you have a reputation. It was hard to get something established. 

SR: It’s good that you’ve done that. We were realizing we’d need permission from local ranchers to stage from if we were gonna go down and do anything.

RC: Once you get down there, you patrol an area, a rancher will say this guy is sleeping comfortably at night, I want people on my ranch too. They see what you’ve done. 

SR: It has to be done right. It can’t be a bunch of yahoos or wannabes or guys that give themselves titles of colonel or whatever with no experience. They need to be competent. (1:47:22.3) We’ll help in any way we can. We’ll really push on the Texas vets to step up.

TB: Yep, Rob I appreciate what you’re doing. I’m gonna do whatever I can in conjunction with Stewart to give you some relief and help.

SR: I think you’ll get a good response.

RC: I hope so. I still have faith in people. 

SR: We hope to see some officers and high-ranking NCOs step up. If you’re listening and you know someone, pass this on and let them know that they’re needed. Texas needs them and their country needs them (1:48:26.9).
