Stewart Rhodes Interview - Senate Detention Bill is Pure Treason - Declares War on American People.mp4
## Uploaded to OathKeepersOK on 12/1/11
## Auto-transcribed via Trint. Listened on 9/4/16

## Keywords: Rhodes; Alex Jones; lawyer; Ron Paul; Oath Keepers; NDAA; indefinite detention; Awlaki; kill American citizens; mainstream media; McCain; Belligerent Act; Guantanamo; grand jury; jury trial; defense appropriations bill; 9/11; al Qaeda; military tribunal; AUMF; due process; North Korea; Bill of Rights; treason clause; UCMJ; military lawyer; occupied country; enemy combatant; MIAC; DHS; OKC bombing; domestic terrorist; libertarians; globalists; DoD; Obama; checkpoints; TSA; Supreme Court; Hamdi; Bill of Rights; international laws of war; NSA; foreign enemy; psyops; Lindsey Graham; Pretorian secret police; SS; Padilla; George Bush; authorize torture; Nazis; Founders; Starr Chamber; treason; Declaration of Independence; Posse Comitatus; open court; witnesses; declaration of war; revolution; 1775; traitor; slaves; violence; NORTHCOM; Hitler; Stalin; Kim Jong Il; tyranny; truth; redcoat; Patrick Henry; Udal; Rand Paul; bipartisan assault; politics has failed; Rubicon; eve of conflict; pretext; domestic terrorist attack; round up Americans; Solzhenitsyn; Oath Keepers; son of the republic; Fast and Furious; OKC staged; mega-banks in control; Constitution; militia; financial collapse; statism; East Germany; Berlin Wall; Stasi; puppet master; international bankers; legitimacy; fraudulent; asymmetrical warfare; FEMA; patriot; Occupy; ignorance; Tea Party; public schools; ADL; SPLC; no choice; tyrants in DC; secret kill list; oath; defend liberty; state sovereignty; coup; civilian control of military

## Alex Jones; Stewart Rhodes

Alex Jones: [00:00:06] With more on these incredibly dangerous developments we're gonna go to Stewart Rhodes he's a constitutional lawyer who won awards at Yale for his reports and papers on the belligerent act and the whole enemy combatant question the fact the paper was titled solving the puzzle of enemy combatant status back in 2004. He also of course worked in Congress for Ron Paul. He's the founder of Oath Keepers He's an Army paratrooper veteran himself. 

Alex Jones: [00:00:39] And again I saw mainstream articles last night and this morning saying that the bill passed the amendment passed and I and I rarely get caught up in something. But then later I learned it didn't pass. It was just that it's passed out of committee and that they're trying to bring cloture. So there can't be a debate on it or a filibuster are going to get Stewart to talk about that and the amendment failed. The amendment failed. 

Alex Jones: [00:01:03] But this is just incredible and it goes to the Senate then I guess it will go on for the president who claims he's going to veto it. But the president's already declared the power to kill American citizens as they've already done with Awlaki and that staged event set the precedent. They've already said they can secretly arrest people and detain them he said last year I don't need this legislation. I'll do it through the executive. 

Alex Jones: [00:01:24] So it's a lot of a lot of politicking to manipulate the public. As one Congressman Amash said this is carefully crafted to mislead the public. A week ago they would say oh this doesn't affect citizens because one provision says that the other provision says but it does if we say so basically. 

Alex Jones: [00:01:41] Now an expert I mean you could think of a better one, military guy, constitutional law scholar you know won awards for his research on this, worked for Ron Paul knows Congress knows all the Byzantine things that are going on Stewart Rhodes can break this down for us. But there's the latest article indefinite detention bill Separ final vote Thursday Senate moves to limit debate on unconstitutional legislation. That's up on Infowars.com the latest there. 

Alex Jones: [00:02:13] But again last hour it passed. Got this warning read article said it passed. That's the mainstream media. I've got to learn just believe nothing they say it's so incredible. I remember four years ago when NATO attacked the Russian held area of South Ossetia and Abkhazia for two hours I was, well the Russians attacked it can't believe they did because CNN was saying it turned out it was NATO attacked. I mean it's just that even I get caught up in their lies. I mean it's incredible. It's incredible. 

Alex Jones: [00:02:45] Stewart Rhodes great to have you here with us my friend. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:02:48] Thank you Alex very much. 

Alex Jones: [00:02:50] OK. So you wrote the papers on this. You've been an expert on this you point out before we went live here the belligerent act is is really McCain's you know real Holy Grail where if you're just belligerent you disappear into a black hole. So now they're trying to get it piecemeal. Break this down. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:03:07] Well yeah in the 2010 belligerence act, belligerent attention act he wanted the language to read that if you commit an act of belligerence in warfare or any other act of terrorism against the United States then you could be, if you were accused of that by some in the executive branch you'd be whisked away into military detention. No grand jury indictment no trial by jury your peers just taken off to Guantanamo. He didn't quite get what he wanted. But what he's doing here is getting what he can. He's attaching this as part of the defense appropriations bill which no one wants to vote against, or they're just you know described as being against the troops. And he talked to a Democrat Levin into proposing it. But really it's it's McCain's baby and this is getting him getting what he can. what he what he can with what is going to get out of this bill if it passes, is section 10:31 the first part of it is does apply to U.S. citizens because it says that any person a covered person under this action, section is any person who is accused of participating in 9/11 or aiding those who did it or is accused of being part of al Qaeda or allied group or supporting one of those organizations. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:04:11] And here's the mere accusation alone by the the executive branch or someone in the Department of Defense would place you under military jurisdiction and and then give the president the option of the detaining you indefinitely, sending you off to Guantanamo. it expressly states that a person who is under that first section can be one detained in the laws of war without trial until the end of the hostilities authorized by the Authorization for Use of Military Force. 

Alex Jones: [00:04:38] And the war has never been or always the endless emergency and those before we continue that say oh well let us get tough. Why even have America. Because America is about due process and is about checks and balances. So you can't stage things so people get a day in court. I mean this idea that that due process is bad. All these people that say that well they should just move to another country if they don't like due process they should move to North Korea. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:05:03] If you don't want to live under the Bill of Rights, and Article 3, the Treason clause, which is what this directly violates then please do move in with North Korea or China. So it's this you can be detained indefinitely for the duration of the war on terror which is can be forever or brought to trial under Chapter 47a Title 10 U.S. Code which is the UCMJ as amended by the military commissions act. And what that means is military, military tribunal military commission. And it also has a section section 10:36. Some people say well you know you get it you get a right to challenge your determination. Well it mandates in Section 10:36 that if you challenge your determination it will be a military judge that shall preside at proceedings for the termination of status of an unprivileged Enemy belligerent. And it also states that you will get if you want one a military lawyer not a civilian lawyer only a military lawyer. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:05:55] So the point is is that they're treating you the American people precisely the same as if you were an Iraqi or someone in Afghanistan in an occupied country. They're going to come into your house once they decided that you're a bad guy or that they do want to call you a bad guy they don't like Alex Jones's speech. And so they designate him an enemy combatant and accuse him of aiding al-Qaida in some way that before you get a trial or anything else happens they come to your door, middle of the night, kick your door in, guys in black body armor come in put machine gun to your face and your children and whisk you away to Guantanamo. 

Alex Jones: [00:06:29] Well wait wait wait. Stewart it's worse than that though because we already have the MIAC and Homeland Security reports. we got a new one yesterday where the feds are telling all local police that state rep Charles Key in Oklahoma a great guy and the victims families of Oklahoma City who are investigating what happened there, They are listed as domestic terrorist. Actually it says domestic terrorism section it lists them, that even mainline libertarian Web sites. we've already seen Ron Paul, having American flags. So the point is they're already teaching the police and military this. they're already saying they're returning veterans the number one enemy. You know they sell it on it's al Qaeda. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:07:09] Oh I know. Of course. But the point is is like I said he couldn't get what he really wants he wants that wide open definition that includes or other terror acts of terrorism. But what he can get and what he's getting so far the Udal amendment yesterday to strike this provision was defeated. What he's getting so far is a definition that supposedly narrow that that only applies to al Qaeda or those affiliated. 

Alex Jones: [00:07:34] And the same al Qaeda they've put in control of areas like North Africa and Libya and are moving over to Syria. I mean this all rings hollow when it turns out the globalists are running al Qaeda. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:07:45] What they're going to do Alex is what they'll do is pass this bill like it like a reach now and then later on say the next appropriations bill for the Defense Department next year, they'll insert a very vanilla amendment that says insert into the section or other acts of terrorism and there you go be a wide open sweeping in of anybody accused of any act of terrorism. But even right now all they have to do with this is the point, you won't get a jury trial you won't get a grand jury indictment. They can just accuse you of aiding al-Qaeda through some means, of some nefarious means and then whisked you away to Guantanamo. And when you want to challenge it it'll be a military judge handpicked by Obama who determine whether or not you were justified in being held. It won't be a jury. 

Alex Jones: [00:08:28] What about the section dealing with using the military domestically. We know for decades they've been trying to do this and we see Marines running checkpoints in California and Alabama and army checkpoints in Tennessee. TSA now at checkpoints around the country. I mean they're already doing this and they're already killing U.S. citizens abroad. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:08:48] That's the other part of it is that the backdrop to this is that the Supreme Court in 2004 in the Hamdi decision gutted the Bill of Rights. It's it's a horrible decision. I don't know why liberals keep saying it's some kind of victory for the Bill of Rights. It was nothing of the sort. I mean even Judge Napolitano got it wrong last night in his in his interview with Rand Paul. God bless him but he missed it on this one. In the Hamdi case the O'Connor, Justice O'Connor for the majority made some flowery speech about how the power the executive branch is not limited but she went ahead and also said there's nothing in the Constitution that prevents the U.S. government from detaining one of its own citizens as an unlawful combatant. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:09:28] And then she said but they have a right to challenge that determination and they have the right to counsel. and in that decision, the only thing the liberals were arguing against back then was that Congress had not given authorization. Well the Supreme Court ruled in the Hamdi case that Congress had given authorization in the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force which even Ron Paul voted for. Well he didn't realize they were going to use that to justify military detention. So they've done is they've they've opened the door to the international laws of war being applied to the American people. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:09:57] And yes as I said my paper back in 2004 if you can detain somebody under the laws of war under the laws of war what else can you do with with an enemy combatant. You can also just kill them on sight which is what Obama has started to do. It's all about the laws of war. The NSA spying on the American people was defended by the Bush administration as being under his powers as commander in chief to surveil the battlefield. Obama now claims the power to just go ahead kill you. It's all very consistent with what could be done to a foreign enemy in wartime. 

Alex Jones: [00:10:26] That was my next point is that if you go back to the Military Commissions Act and all of that I remember at the time covering it and having you and others on you know it says that citizens are exempt unless the Defense Department or people they designate say that you're a combatant and now you're basically extra judicially stripped of the rights of a citizen. So it's it's all these games and they say it over and over again but what about the overall psyop last week and this week of saying it doesn't affect citizens even when Lindsey Graham and even when John McCain admitted it did. we see that classic military psyop of trying to make the debate about whether it did this or not, Instead of debating is this a good idea. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:11:07] Well that's Section 10:32. And there have been some folks even an article in The American Thinker that misread that. 10:32 requires military custody, But then for certain people but then exempt from that requirement, U.S. citizens or lawful residents for actions that are committed here. What that means is that the president must detain someone in military custody if they meet the criteria except unless they are U.S. citizens or lawful residents. And in that case he's under Section 10 31, He has discretion. So all it really means is that he must detain some people. But when it comes to U.S. citizens and lawful residents, he can do what he wants he can. He can try them by by a judge or jury trial for criminal criminal statutes under federal law or he can put them in military custody. It does not say that that the military trial provisions of the military detention provision's cannot apply to American citizens. It just says that he has discretion. and this is something that I believe it was The other other Senator you mentioned earlier who got it right. He said look all it does lead up to the president. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:12:08] And the president likes that he is not opposing the detention policy. He's simply opposing that one section. 

Alex Jones: [00:12:14] And then by the way all the presidents do. I mean you're a Yale constitutional Award-Winning lawyer. You know more about this than I do. But watching and studying it. The president then just lets the secretary of defense and then his designates do whatever you want so people think oh well that's a special thing, Just with the president. but the way I've seen this done in the past the president then just designates and and creates his own military Pretorian secret police like the SS. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:12:42] That's correct this but this the actual document itself calls for the establishment by the secretary of defense may and in in in consultation secretary of state and director of national intelligence here. They set up their own system for the termination. that it won't be done by by the president. like under Bush, Padilla and Hamdi both of them are U.S. citizens or were a designated an unlawful combatant by flunkeys in the DOD. Lower bureaucrats not by President Bush themselves. So you're correct. 

Alex Jones: [00:13:12] Incredible. Now what about this new bill. Have you seen this new one. I got an article here authorizing torture. Now they're not even denying that it's torture. They're just saying yes we're going to torture and it goes on to say the same Senate we should today move forward with a bill allowing indefinite detention of American citizens on American soil for suspicion of being terrorist is now considering a bill to repeal the prohibitions against torture. The ACLU and another 30 organization sent a letter to the Senate asking them to oppose an effort in Congress that threatens to revive the use of torture and other inhumane interrogation techniques. I mean the Nazis, Stewart, as you know didn't put stuff on paper. I mean as a constitutional lawyer as a veteran, but just as a guy researching history, why is it a bad idea to have torture. That's like asking why is it wrong for Mr. Sandusky to rape children. I mean why is it wrong to put children in BBQ pits. I mean why is it wrong to have a government that secretly arrest people and has dungeons and tortures people. You know why is it wrong to put babies in deep fryer. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:14:21] Well mean the founders First of all as a matter of constitutional law the founders put the bill of rights in place and also the treason clause of Article 3 in particular to stop torture, to stop compelled confessions. That's how they got to compelled confession out of you in the Star Chamber in English history. They tortured you, forced you to confess, and then they executed you for treason against the king. The founders knew that history. they also experienced, if you go read the declaration of independence, it talks there very clearly about the causes of taking up arms. One of them is denial jury trial, one of them is the application of a jurisdiction foreign to their constitution against them. Another one is which which would be a military tribunal. No one is The application of military law to the colonists whisking away overseas. 

Alex Jones: [00:15:05] Quartering of troops. And they've already militarized our police. I mean that's military right there. That's an end run around Posse Comitatus. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:15:12] I mean the whole bill of rights that the Fourth Fifth Sixth Amendments and the Eighth Amendment also in particular were designed to stop exactly this, arbitrary detention, denial of jury trial, being whisked away into military custody, the military being made superior to the civilian power, the denial of the right to a jury trial, which is mandated in Article 3 the treason clause that tells you very plainly what must be done with an American who wages war against his own country or aids the enemy. And Scalia got this right his dissent in Hamdi, he said look the treason clause is plain It's right there. It tells you you must try them in a court in a civilian court through a jury of their peers in a public trial. 

Alex Jones: [00:15:53] And if their client or they're going to get executed. But I mean here's what's so amazing right. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:15:58] That's the whole point of that is they knew that secret evidence and torture would be used. That's why they insisted on a civilian trial in open court with two witnesses to the overt act. 

Alex Jones: [00:16:09] Absolutely not one informant or something lying. Now we have secret informant testimony. I mean and now you can't face your accusers. How much of our constitutional system has been completely overthrown. I mean as a layman looking at this it looks about like 80 percent is pretty much just been blown to bits. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:16:27] Well if they pass this bill it will be pretty much our enabling act. I mean the only the only thing left would be for John McCain to do an amendment that says or any other action that's considered terrorism by the U.S. government. but really you should see this as a declaration of war against the American people. That's how we should see it. Need to stop this right now. If we don't Alex I do believe that there will be no recourse except another revolution. Otherwise we are going to be lost will be put in the same position as the founding fathers were in 1775. They have been taken off the mask and told us, I mean they can do to your kids. There's no age limitation in this bill. They could take her your children away and take them to Guantanamo and hold them for the duration of the war on terrorism on the mere accusation that they are terrorists. I know it sounds ridiculous but they could do it. So why do you want to wait until it gets done to you the American people. they're telling you already what they're going to do. They're declaring war on you. John McCain is a traitor. Every single one of them that votes for this. Lindsey Graham are all traitors they committed treason against you and I don't use that term lightly. But they are declaring war and waging war on the American people. And so far as I'm concerned if passed this bill, It's put up or shut up time for the American people. If you do we're going to fight another revolution or we're going to be slaves. 

Alex Jones: [00:17:38] Well Stewart at the beginning of the show tonight I said to the viewers I said I'm never somebody that shoots my mouth off about violence. I want to fix things peacefully. I'm into the info war. and I've studied history. It's it's engrossing. I'm obsessed with it. And unfortunately I had to tell viewers at the beginning that people do need to go ahead and prepare for defense because this is a declaration of war against the American people. they've set NORTHCOM up. They've set up the national police force. They've set up the secret police. They tell us torture is good. They say they'll arrest us for no reason and throw away the key. I mean these are Hitlerian, Stalinistic declarations. And we would be fools to not listen to them. And and and now they're taking people's private bank accounts. I mean it is if the gates of tyranny have been up against us and and and it's always darkest before the dawn. I hope this gets turned back. But if there was ever any doubt about the drive, the mindset, the makeup of Lindsey Graham and people like him and John McCain I mean these are modern day tyrants. I mean these people really are would be Kim Jong Il's. And I know you never talk like this on my show I probably interviewed you 20 times. I've seen hundreds of speeches you've given and you're just being honest. You know it's not fun. As a broadcaster and a talk show host they get up here on air and I know the danger. And but the truth Veritas is paramount. and they provocateur. They want violence. We don't want it. 

Alex Jones: [00:19:19] But if they do start disappearing people and stuff. My God we're just entering an area of the ball game where they want to force a confrontation. I mean clearly you see just like the arrogant redcoats you know did two hundred thirty seven years ago. They're trying to push a confrontation right now. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:19:40] Well with that comes a point though as Patrick Henry said that where you have to realize that the fight is going to come. And if that they're telling us what they're going to do, I don't see them giving up this power or relenting unless they're forced to. and yes there is a thin chance we could do it through politics but look at the vote yesterday on the Udal amendment which Rand Paul joined in co-sponsorship of, it was defeated. So the majority of the senators and almost every single Republican except for Rand Paul and a bunch of the Democrats also a bipartisan assault, the majority of them want this. They think it's totally fine to hold American citizens indefinitely without a trial or try them in military tribunal and execute them. They think that's great. And so you know so far politics has failed us. And really I think that once you have this Act in place and they start to use it, then you you're talking about you know having crossed the Rubicon and now you're like you're like 1774. you're on the eve of conflict, that's where you are. And the only real question then is a matter of time and how it's going to go and how you maintain the moral high ground which our founding fathers did. And I do urge people take a very close look at our history. They were pushed again and again and again until they finally had to fight back because they came for their weapons. And that's what's going to happen in this country if they pass this bill. The next step will be they put all the all the the pieces of the puzzle in place and then they need an excuse or a pretext. You talked about many times. Then there'll be a domestic terrorist attack or something like that will happen and they'll start rounding up people. when they get to that point and it starts to happen, You will have no recourse but to fight. same place that Solzhenitsyn was in when he talked about how they burned in the camps, later lamenting the fact that they waited and they did not fight back. That's where we will be. But we're not Russia. We're not Germany. We're not in Nazi Germany. Good little Germans. There is a sizable portion of the population in this country who are not going to take it and who are going to fight back. 

Alex Jones: [00:21:37] Well Stewart you're right. And the globalist have miscalculated. I mean when you see Core Design making 40 to 1 bets with his people's private bank accounts and this is the main economic adviser to Obama these are mentally ill people. They've got actuaries, they've got think tanks, they've got political scientists telling them what moves to make but they're not going to be able to carry this out. If there is at least 30 percent of the population that when they see others overrun and arrested and then tortured and trotted out all drugged up could be you could be me who are going to go off and I want to tell the military and police, the globalists are going to set off shore and watch you get chewed up in a fight with the American people. It's very important that police and military really make a decision now which side they're going to be on. because this is a decision this is a decision for all the marbles their family their country everything. The tyrants we have running things, I've studied the different tyrannies, is so absolutely wicked and hateful. I mean it's not some Basrah corruption Stewart. Your comments on that. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:22:44] No you're correct. And that is their Achilles heel. And that's why I founded Oath Keepers. The military. You're right. Choose now who you shall serve. Either you are. I'm talking to the military out there especially. Either you are a son of the republic and you will defend the Bill of Rights and the Constitution or you are a traitor to your country and you are nothing but a lowly dog, an obedient dog to the powers that be. Choose now whom you shall serve. 

Alex Jones: [00:23:12] Well you know that's what's so disgusting about this Stewart. It's not fun being right. It's not fun that we've been proven correct. It's very sick. And and the pace it's moving is so quick and so naked now undoubtedly. I mean look at fast and furious. They got caught shipping tens of thousands of guns into Mexico so they had CBS release, Oh we allowed them to be sold at a few gun shops. Of course it came out it was drugs being shipped to the U.S. by the ATF, FBI, DEA, Border Patrol, Coast Guard, you name it. And several other federal agencies. It was tens of thousands of guns shipped out of the country to Honduras, Mexico, Illinois, Indiana, Florida, to gangs that were killing other gangs. And you find out our government literally is a Mafia at the top of drug dealing criminals. And you find out they really did stage Oklahoma City. You find out they really did do. I mean people need to understand. I mean we're not just sitting here demonizing people we don't like. I don't have words Stewart from my study describe just how nasty these people are. And I think people understand it's like like you said Solzhenitsyn said what would have happened if we met the secret police with hatchets and pokers, You know when they came to grab people. you know half the city would have been taken to their camps. The organs of the machine would have ground to a halt in days. 

Alex Jones: [00:24:34] I mean and when you realize the very same mega-banks that funded Lenin and Stalin are funding this now they planned to do all of what they did in the Soviet Union here. They lick their lips and talk about how they plan to exterminate at least 20 percent of this country. They plan to take our kids, our wives and blow their heads off after they rape them. These are murdering absolute people worse than the Bolsheviks. And I don't say that for effect. These are wanton bloodthirsty scum and they have our flag on their shoulders. How do you deal with that. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:25:09] Well I think the important thing is to always go back to our Constitution and Bill of Rights. I mean that's just the truth. That's the, and our Declaration of Independence. And that's why they don't teach that in schools. And so I encourage especially those in the military right now and also law enforcement, go back and read the original documents. read the causes for taking up arms in your forefathers revolution. You will see it right in the Declaration of Independence the same exact thing. It nothing changes. Human nature does not change. It's the same will to power. It's the same totalitarian mindset that they faced and they fought. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:25:44] Look at what they wrote in The Bill of Rights to stop this from happening again. Look at what McCain and Lieberman and the rest of them want to do. and they want you to be the tool of oppression over your own people. See the truth. And when you see the truth and you understand that your children, your wives, your family are all in danger also then you need to do what's right. and what's right is is you must at least refuse, stand down and refuse to be a tool of oppression. But I'll tell you what if they start using military force against the United States and the American people domestically you will have to make an even tougher choice. You will have to fight on the side of the people. You will have to make that choice just like George Washington did. Just like the militia in 1775, who was the military of the United States at the Time. they decided they made the choice. They must fight back against the Crown against the national government. They had no choice. You will have the same obligation. 

Alex Jones: [00:26:37] Now Ron Paul has talked about another possibility. Things may completely financially collapse before this happens and that might take the steam out of these people. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:26:48] Well you know it's interesting the very first conversation I had with Congressman Paul, When I when I was going to apply for a job with him. he was you know kind of worn down. This was back in 1998. And he said you know I'm I'm afraid that it's going to end up economic collapse to wake the American people up. And then I expressed the concern that well it could lead to more oppression like the Great Depression did. And so the is that it's an open window like you said before. It's a it's a two way window of opportunity for very, you know, horrible evil things to happen and a destruction of our Constitution and destruction of freedom, or it's an open window for us to resurrect it and restore the republic. So when this window opens, and it will, the economic collapse is coming. We need to be ready to make sure that we can push through towards liberty. We better be prepared for that. But if we're weak if we're not morally prepared, spiritually prepared, and physically prepared for it for what's coming. Then there's a chance that they could win. 

Alex Jones: [00:27:42] Describe Ron Paul back in 1998. I've been interviewing him since 1996 but I don't know him as he as well as you did working in his office for years. Now you describe worn down. I mean this is a guy that does work 16 18 hours a day, totally dedicated. I mean describe for people out there what he's like behind the scenes. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:28:01] He's the same behind the scenes as he is on the camera. He's. That's him. You know he's he's got endurance like I can't believe that he's. I mean I'm burnout now. I'm burnt out even after two years of doing the oath keepers. I'm fried. I'm burnt out and I can't believe he's been doing doing like this for decades it's amazing. So he just has the endurance of. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:28:21] I think it's because it's his calling. He understands that this is his place in history and he I think he believes and has faith that in the end liberty will triumph. Otherwise I don't know how he could keep going on. We have people on the staff there who quit and were just so despondent what they saw back in 98. This is you know way before the war on terror and this sort of stuff. But there were already so despondent about that you know the incredible tide of statism and government power that they were going up against corruption. 

Alex Jones: [00:28:49] It makes me cry, Stewart. I've got to tell you I think about this courage and I go through it's got to be horrible. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:28:56] Well we have the we have the potential we still have the potential for it to be like 1989 in Eastern Germany when the Wall fell. If there's enough of an awakening in the people you can reach that tipping point. 

Alex Jones: [00:29:09] But that's what finally happened there was the military refused to shoot the people trying to get out. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:29:13] That's right. And they all stood down all at once and without their support the communist party was done. The Stasi were powerless. They all ran and hid and tore off their emblems and tried to hide the crowds. 

Alex Jones: [00:29:24] There's a famous problem, my mom was over in Germany years ago. She brought me back. and it was a famous photo of a family run in their barbwire. And the little kid is caught on it and there's there's a series of them and he takes a little kid and gives it to the parents. And of course they took that guy and tortured him and killed him. But that's a famous photo of the East German soldier. The people have gotten cross and he goes and gives them the toddler which seems like just a normal human act. But that was his death sentence. He should have just gone out and climbed on through and gone with them. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:29:55] And we have a really good interview on our Web site with Guenter Spens, an oath keeper who was an East German lieutenant colonel back then. and he describes how back in 68 during the Prague Spring there were some officers who refused orders to file, to fire on the crowds. They were disappeared. So that was too soon. But by 1989 so many East Germans were sick of communism including in the military that tipping point was reached. And that's what we got to do. We hopefully will have enough time to hit that tipping point of 80 percent, 85 percent, 90 percent of the population who is sick and tired of the illegitimate governments over us. And they will it'll be like a paper tiger. 

Alex Jones: [00:30:34] But see with the communists in East Germany they had one party here they've got two that are really the same party and they have this fake fight. That's how they keep fighting with each other. How do you break through that. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:30:46] Well I think once again you realize like this like this bill here it's a. Whenever you hear the word bipartisan, You should realize what that means is it it's a bipartisan assault on the bill of rights. You know, so that they're both doing the same thing. This is, Levin is sponsoring this bill. McCain really you know helped him write it. But Levin the Democrats sponsoring this bill you have both Democrats and Republicans. Then you had Harry Reid to yesterday move for cloture which is to to limit the debate on the bill which will stifle a filibuster. They know that Rand Paul is going to filibuster. So that's the thing is when you look back at the bailouts that was overwhelmingly bipartisan. Look at the the domestic what's called the The violent radicalization homegrown terrorism prevention act that was sponsored by Harman the Democrat, that was also bipartisan. The military commissions act, same way. the Patriot Act, same way. That's how you break through that is to realize that when ever they decimate the Constitution, it's done through bipartisanship. So that's why, like you said, it's one puppet master with two hands a left hand and a right hand there but both being run by the same people. And look it look. Follow the money. The money go international bankers. That's who's running our government. 

Alex Jones: [00:31:53] My God they're openly announcing world government now run by mega banks that took over their fraudulent paper. and the people that engage in the fraud are the ones being, the media says are the are the heroes because they're owned by the same crooks. And then when we're proven right, we don't get patted on the back it's like how horrible. You know it's just incredible. You know earlier when you were talking about all of this happening and everything I literally heard had tears come out of my eyes and not even a sobbing way an involuntary because that's your brain giving you endorphins so it's not too painful. I mean that's literally what it is. Because I realize, my God, America the only place we've got to live is now an example of evil worldwide and we're going to go through this. I mean it's the realization that we're going to have to go into the first few circles of this hell and then a lot of people we've warned are going to get activated after it's really naked and after they really experience the fruits of tyranny. that But we had it so well here that people don't recognize it as the oxygen is being sucked out of the room. And I just myself having that deep realization. it's almost like levels of realization. I know how real this is. But then more and more every day it hits me it's really real. 

Alex Jones: [00:33:09] And you can, especially if you've read all the histories of this country but others, that the founders how they kept having debates and it kept getting more and more real and the abuse got more and more real. and then they went and begged please stop doing this. And the system said no we're going to do more. And then it just leads to it. And I guarantee you it's be the same way. There are probably over 100 million gun owners in this country. And if one is, they say it's more like 150 million, if one percent actually fights back that's a million and a half people. And I mean there's no way to beat that if it's done in an asymmetrical way. and I'm certainly not dreaming of it going there. it's just that I don't think the minions of this system realize that all their high tech spy gear and all their black uniforms are not going to protect them from an enraged population. But again I don't want them to be chewed up. I want them to recognize they're working for total criminals. I mean my God look at the mega banks that run everything all the crimes they commit. It's a bunch of Bernie Madoff's. I mean it's ridiculous. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:34:09] Well that's that's the silver lining for us is that the more ridiculous they get the more legitimacy is torn away from them and rightfully so. And the more they're revealed for what they are which is fraudulent, unconstitutional, unprincipled you know totally the opposite of the founding fathers. and that's the whole point. If we can wake up enough police and military to that reality then we will win because they will not have the tools to do it. And so that's you know that's what we have to work on. We can't sit on our butts though and rely on that we've got to get ready ourselves. Like you said you know, to be blunt we need to prepare for the very worst and what that will mean is asymmetrical warfare like our founding fathers in the southern campaign had to fight. You know Francis Marion in the swamp box. the over mountain man who defeated the loyalists at King's Mountain. All of that is an example of what will have to be done. And this country will be like Afghanistan. I don't, I'm not saying I'm trying to compare Americans to the Taliban or anything like that. But the point is as you will see resistance like that. you will see that kind of a hardcore resistance in the United States. But it is my hope and prayer that you can avoid doing that by having enough of the military and police side simply side with what's right. side with the Constitution. side with the bill of rights. side with the Declaration of Independence and do what's right. If you do that, you win. 

Alex Jones: [00:35:29] Let me just ask you this final question. I don't know if you've seen road to tyranny but I'm going to a piece next week or something with it. because it's a 10 year old film, came out right after 9/11. and it's footage that I was sent by police and defendants and others.But I have FEMA in Kansas City saying George Washington, Thomas Jefferson are terrorist, America's bad. All this I mean and you think you're watching a Monty Python movie it's not a joke though. You know like an absurdist police state where they say breathing is evil. And the police are there agreeing with it. 

Alex Jones: [00:35:59] And then I have said to me months later that that was in Kansas City, from Virginia. Abbie Newman pulled over at a checkpoint. They want to search her, she says no, they grabbed her out she doesn't resist, they charged her. Then they find a Harrison Ford video. She'd rented it and it was Patriot Games. The word patriot freaks them out and they don't even know what Harrison Ford is. I mean it's like it's like a joke. It be funny if it wasn't like you're watching this from their squad car as they did to her trunk 10 feet away with mics on. And the guy and the supervisors talking to him and they go she's got a pocket Constitution and oh my gosh this is horrible. I can't believe she's got this in there, like is this legal. And they're going oh I'll Campbell I can't and they're acting. I mean for me that be like somebody who'd been in a North Korean brainwashing camp for 20 years they've been tortured every time they were shown a constitution. I mean how did they find. These are like rednecks. How did they find men who are. I mean I don't even believe this is real, is what I'm saying it's so alien that obviously they've sworn an oath to this. This is what America is based on. This is why we're supposedly special. and they're arrest some woman and a veteran no criminal record at a checkpoint because she has a constitution. I mean and and they have to have a debate about is it allowed. I mean we really haven't seen the video it's online it's free everywhere. People get the DVD from us didn't matter. Point is. Is that these these guys are under mind control. How do they how do they get them to this point. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:37:37] Well public school I mean look at the Occupy people look at the ignorance displayed there. Look at the Adam Kokesh went out and interviewed some of those people and ask some basic questions. You know that they look at the stuff that Jay Leno does and he goes to talks on the street. They don't know who he fought in World War II. They don't know why we fought in World War 2. They don't that, they're just ignorant of our history. And this is the product of public schools. and so yes you have ignorant people both in colleges, you have ignorant people in the Tea Party who support what McCain is doing right now. They support what Bush did when he's gutting the constitution and wiping his rear with it. And you have cops who are ignorant also. It's a product of public schooling. That's why we have am ignorant population. 

Alex Jones: [00:38:13] Yeah. They don't know what the document is. They don't know what they want to. And so they've been taught by the ADL Southern Poverty Law Center we got them and it's bad. They tell our Constitution cop killer, cop killer that's what they tell them in The drills. people who talk about the Constitution want to murder you. So they're like oh we found it. I mean it's still there that dumb. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:38:33] Well that ignorant I wouldn't say they're dumb. 

Alex Jones: [00:38:35] They're ignorant, you're right. They're just purely ignorant. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:38:38] Lacking in knowledge. Right. And so that's the this is why the truth is the answer. You know it's an antidote. One drop of truth is an antidote to a whole bucket of nonsense. And so we have to keep spreading the truth. But the question is is will we have time to reach them all. Or will we run out of time. Last thing I want to do is have to fight against people who think they're doing the right thing but are doing the exactly the wrong thing. And the really just a horrible horrible future for us. 

Alex Jones: [00:39:06] Well they're not just tasering and beating innocent people though they will get them to start thinking a little bit. But you know Stewart looking at this, as you said humans just repeat the same thing over and over again. And now it's happening here. I mean it just goes to show that if a bunch of wild Frontier's people that were in constant wars were being bullied around by the redcoats, what's going to happen to a bunch of fat dumb and happy people who think everything's fine. Of course crooks took over of course they're and try to set the worst tyranny any possible. They've committed a lot of crimes. They've got to secure those crimes. If there's a peaceful revolution, they're all going to go to prison. That's why they want violence. That's why I think we should try to avert it at all cost. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:39:52] Well up until the point is reached where you reach the Solzhenitsyn point where you should have resisted and you should have fought back because you're going to wind up in a camp. And so I wouldn't say you know avoid at all costs. I'd say it's a last option. 

Alex Jones: [00:40:04] I'm not saying, I'm saying at all costs up until defense. Sure if they're driving around in black trucks screengrab grabbing the Patriots. I mean you know obviously. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:40:13] And here's the point I want to make to John McCain and the rest of them. It's a two way street. What you're doing is sticking your arm down a badger hole. because when you strip away the protections of the bill of rights from the American people like you said earlier Alex there's 30 percent of the population who is awake and aware and they're not going to wait for years you to just come get them all tonight. They're going to consider you John McCain and Senator Levin the rest of you are going to consider you to be what you consider them, a military enemy. And so if you open that door and leave them no protection, no security, no no no knowing that they have a chance to face their accusers in a trial before a jury of their peers. If you strip that away which you're really stripping away is the last reason they have to hold back. You're giving them no recourse. And that's what I worry about is that more you know when they reach that point it's going to open that door. And we will be shoved through and have no choice. 

Alex Jones: [00:41:05] The reason you're right is I've had to think about this. And at the moment they're going around like a NKVD and grabbing families and stuff. I mean you don't have a choice, and then you don't just wait and deal with the stupid steroid thugs that come you know. it's the criminals giving the orders that have to be brought to justice. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:41:26] Well that's where we'll be. I mean King George was across the seas. The current crop of would be tyrants is in Washington D.C. They're on our own soil. And so in that sense it will be a little bit different. I don't want to say much more than that. But but the point is is that they're opening a door that it goes both ways. If they're going to treat the American people like an occupied conquered civilian population like Iraq or Afghanistan and then the American people will treat them like occupiers, they will treat them like a military foreign occupiers. They will be treated the same. 

Alex Jones: [00:42:01] Well that is what's happening. I mean they are saying we're occupied by NORTHCom where the enemy. And as Lindsey Graham said yes U.S. citizens are targeted and America is a battleground. And he's this little I don't even want to say a feminist because women aren't weak like that this little Nellie pasty creature. But then McCain is actually a veteran and has been under the Vietcong tyranny. I mean, to watch him. He really is a piece of trash. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:42:30] He is whatever. I mean he's long ago abdicated in any any any, does he doesn't deserve any respect at all whatsoever for anything he did in service because he's betrayed his oath. I consider him a traitor. And like I said I don't use that term lightly. He should be tried for treason and then suffer the sentence. 

Alex Jones: [00:42:48] Well it is treason to overthrow habeas corpus, everything and this is the hallmark of a tyranny. Last question this is the last as we're at 45 minutes right now and I know you're busy and we've got some financial news coming up as well. Talking to the members and the folks that are involved with Oath Keepers, the police, the military that you talk to. What is their sense of what's going on. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:43:11] Most of them that I talk to are concerned that we are in the last breath Before the plunge. Quite a few of them are concerned that that's where we are. We're on the edge of the chasm and they're very concerned that we're going to cross and have no recourse but to do the same as our founding fathers. And they don't want to do it. They don't want it. but that's what they feel. I talked to him across the country and they're just. I mean look at this I mean this is you know, the Southern Poverty Law Center tries to say we're all conspiracy theorists. this is this is. I encourage everybody to go read my paper and then go look at what's happened since. I wrote that 2004. I predicted what's happening now. it's legal, it's right there in your face in Supreme Court cases. it's right there in bills in front of Congress. You know the president is doing it, he's executing American citizens with his own secret list. It's happening and you are in exactly the same place that the founders were in 1775. That is where we are. And people understand that. I think I think more and more Americans are starting to realize that. now the difficult question is is that and then what do we do. How do we proceed. How do we stay moral. How do we stay in keeping with our oaths. And yet also defend liberty. How do we do that when the government itself has become the enemy. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:44:38] And I think the answer has to be in state sovereignty and that's what the founders did. when the government was over them was so illegitimate that they separated from it. That is what it had. It was it was destroyed. They destroyed the British constitution, it was gone. They resorted back to being sovereign states and then they erected a new government the arts Articles of Confederation and then our Constitution. So I think the same thing has to happen here. If the federal government declares war on the American people and in this Dang Bill we should say OK fine you have destroyed the constitution you've destroyed the compact, we are now again sovereign states. We will stand on our state sovereignty. The military should that put their loyalty to the governors of the states, not to the president. 

Alex Jones: [00:45:20] By the way. They saw that four years ago and the John Warner defense authorization act it had language in it about the state governors if they were insurrection or populations and how they're going to make a 10 regional governor deal with they've now done. So the system is as now hasas even a war gamed all this out. The mega-banks that took over the federal government has actually War gained how to conquer us. But again this is by people that make 40 to 1 bets with their own with people's private accounts. I mean they're nuts. I mean they're crazy like a fox but still they're nuts. 

Stewart Rhodes: [00:45:54] Well they still have that Achilles heel the weakness still is that they are relying upon U.S. servicemen and women to obey their orders. and if we can show them the proper course which is to put their allegiance at this. I mean if the federal government you know destroys the constitution completely, which is which it almost is right now, then they should put their loyalty. I don't want a military coup, that would be very dangerous. But their loyalty to the states. just like Washington never established himself as the new king. He was subordinate and obedient to the revolutionary Congress. That's why he obeyed the orders of. always the military was subservient to the civil power. The same thing will have to happen even in the midst of a revolution. The military must not take upon itself the power to govern the people. They must be subordinate to you know at least the civilian leadership as well. 

Alex Jones: [00:46:43] All right. Stewart Rhodes of Oathkeepers.org, we'll be talking to you more in the future as they try to pass torture bills, secret arrest bills. We need to really get a hold of the Senate right now though. because even so many psyops. First they said this wasn't in there then no we've passed it but they hadn't. There really pulling out the stop try to get this. We need contact the Senate and let them know that we're aware of their criminal activity and that everybody's going to campaign against him and speak out against him and more. Thank you Stewart. 

Alex Jones: [00:47:10] Thank you. 

