Stewart Rhodes and Oath Keepers of Josephine County, Oregon - Sugar Pine Mine
## Uploaded to OathKeepersOK on 4/28/15
## Listened on 9/30/16 & 10/1/16

## Mostly not verbatim. Check video before quoting.

## Keywords: Rhodes; JOCO; Oregon; Sugar Pine Mine; Joseph Rice; operation; security; commo; PIO; medical; BLM; papers; volunteers; court; due process; Antiquities Act; burn cabins; FOIA; III%; Constitutional Guard; maintream media; Bundy Ranch; CPT; donation; GoFundMe; Constitution; patriots; Founding Fathers; ham radio; Ferguson; veteran; sheriff; law; ATF; EPA; West; ranch; overreach; local leadership; community; CSPOA; background check; 2A; 4A; 5A; due process; county commissioner; OK; arson; militia

## Stewart Rhodes; Joseph Rice; Joseph Santoro; Scott Hicks; Mary Emerick

SR: I’m on the phone with the crew from JoCo OK in Oregon at the site of the Sugar Pine Mine. I want to get a quick sitrep from them on the ground, let you folks know what’s happening. JR, tell us what’s going on.

JR: We’re running 24/7 operations with the Sugar Pine Mine security. We have a multi-tier, very complex operation. We have a staging end that’s set up with security, commo, HQ, PIO, kitchen, medical, and supply and distribution. We have parking for participants at the mine. We are running shuttle services. This is also where we do our bedding. Up at the mine, we have the security detachment, they have the logistical support they need, sanitation, first aid, medical, and field kitchen. They also have a commo unit. We maintain constant communication between staging and the mine. We’ve had people moving back and forth, as we have volunteers come and go. We maintain our staffing. We do need people, we need bodies. The miners are requesting us to maintain our presence at operational tempo until they get their day in court. They did serve their papers to BLM last Wednesday. As of today, they still have not received any type of hearing or court schedule from BLM. BLM’s continued to make false promises. They offered a letter from their special agent in charge saying they would not go on the mine site until the miners got their due process; that was over two weeks ago and the miners haven’t seen that. Their senior representative out of Washington DC has made false statements in the media: BLM’s never burned cabins. Currently, we’re collecting affidavits from the miners that have had or been affected by cabins being burned. This is becoming a serious issue. Some of these cabins are historic in nature, 75-100 years old. They are protected under the Antiquities Act, because they are part of American history and part of the Oregon Trail and the American frontier when we settled the West. 

SR: (0:02:54.8) But the BLM has also lit fire to cabins that people were living in. Is that correct?

JR: That’s correct. In the 70s and 80s, we have 2 people, one of our shuttle drivers know them directly, and Rick the claim owner knows them directly. He had gone in to town to get medicine for his wife, and while he was gone the BLM lit the cabin on fire. She was in it, barely escaped with her life.

SR: That’s one instance. Was there another one of a reported death?

JR: We’re still verifying that. We have confirmation on the one, we’re still trying to verify this other one.

SR: Right. So at least one instance you know of of someone’s cabin lit on fire while there was someone inside who barely got out.

JR: Yes. We have documentation of hundreds of other cabins. We’re not talking 5 or 10 cabins, we’re talking upwards of 100 cabins that have burned by the BLM, many of them protected under the Antiquities Act.

SR: So the miners. This is the history behind why the miners are so anxious and concerned when BLM threatens to destroy their property.

JR: Yeah. There’s been confusion, we’ve had questions asked why don’t they get an injunction, why haven’t they done this. What has not been told well by the media is they have submitted 13 FOIA requests over the last 6 months. BLM said hey you have to submit an operations plan, they said no we don’t. They said yes you do, so they FOIA’d BLM, and in those FOIAs they specifically requested what exactly are they required and how is BLM coming to that determination. Now BLM’s not answering any of their FOIA requests at all until last Friday, I understand they answered 1 and that’s only because of our presence on site put pressure on them. The miners have been dealing legally with the BLM for the last 6 months, so when the cease and desist order came, they were taking punitive action without any type of due process. They basically have refused to answer any of the miners’ inquiries through FOIA to assert the BLM’s assertion that they had to file this operations plan. Because under the 1872 law, they are not required to.

SR: (0:05:33.0) I see. You asked for volunteers. It’s pretty clear that you’re not restricting volunteers to OK members. You’ve had guys there from III%, from Idaho and Oregon. You’re accepting anyone who’s qualified, is that correct?

JR: Yeah. We’ve had people from OK, Idaho III%, Central Oregon Constitutional Guard. We’ve had the Michigan Regulars. We’ve had people from all over the country. We had a gentleman, he spoke with his father, retired Lt. Col. In the army, and he got in his car and drove from Alabama. We had another gentleman arrive yesterday, he was watching what was going on, decided he needed to come out here and support the Constitution and the freedoms, he drove from Revere, Massachusetts, all the way from Massachusetts, showed up here, he’s a naturalized citizen from Bosnia. We had another gentleman from South Carolina, we’ve had people from Colorado, Arizona, Nevada, Texas, Alaska, Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana. They’ve come from all over the West to support what we’re doing here. It’s been a mix of everyone, all focused on the Constitution and the preservation of 5A rights for these miners. OK has operational control, command over the operation. These groups have come in and worked seamlessly. We had a medical team that was stretched from Eugene, all the way down to Eureka, CA. They had never worked together, didn’t know each other, out of this they’ve now developed and become a regional response team specifically to support OK and our operations, should this ever stand up again. We’ve had some very strong networks and relationships build. To have an opportunity for all these different groups to integrate and work flawlessly together, very professional, very disciplined, very focused on the mission at hand. 

SR: (0:07:59.2) That’s good to go, excellent news. You also had a medical emergency at the mine, correct?

JR: Yes. Mary vetted 3 media sources, a TV reporter from local Channel 12, a Reuters and AMP reporter. While up at the mine, the AMP reporter started his interview and immediately had a massive stroke. I recognized it, I called down to the camp requesting medical, they responded immediately. Then the Reuters, he also realized he was having a stroke. We attended to them, we were able with medical to get them on a litter, down from the mine site, into the ambulance, through constant communication with the staging area facilitating the medical response. We had them in the ambulance headed to the hospital within 35, 40 minutes. Well within the golden hour. He was immediately transferred to Oregon Life Sciences by medevac, life flight, to Portland. He went in for emergency brain surgery, they removed a blood clot, believe it or not, he’s up and going, and he showed up here yesterday with his family to thank us for saving his life.

SR: (0:09:26.7) That’s awesome. If you had not had a squared away medical team there, what would have happened to that reporter?

JR: That’s been an after-action review discussion. The belief is, he said it and his wife said it, he could not have been in a better place to have that stroke. We immediately recognized it, we had our medical team respond right away, he was treated and transported with a high level of care within the golden hour. He could have been driving down the road by myself or sitting at home, it may not have come out as well. Just by the grace of god, he was in the right place at the right time. We had the trained professionals immediately recognize it and assist him. 

SR: That’s great. It shows the critical need for emergency medicine. Regardless of what situation you’re dealing with, it’s gotta be there. I’m glad you had someone on hand. 

JR: (0:10:23.2) It goes to show, this is a security operation but we have a lot of moving parts. Just as important as the security team, those other support elements with medical, the kitchen, commo, all that is important to make this work, to make it function, to keep it ticking along.

SR: That’s exactly why all those elements are part of our CPT program. You guys are an example of that program at work. This is what it’s supposed to be for, for local teams to be there for their communities, to be ready to go.

JR: It’s integrated very well. What’s interesting is nationally we’re going to be compared to the Bundy Ranch. This is the first real stand up again with BLM here afterwards. The probably number 1 comment we’ve heard, well-organized, well-disciplined, very professional. People knew when they came in exactly what was happening, [garbled], what their responsibilities were. We process everybody in, we process everybody out. Everyone that’s been coming in has been fully vetted. We’ve taken that fringe element, the trouble makers, out of the equation. We have turned people away, but we’ve done it in a manner where, we thank them for their support, we thank them for coming in to help us, but at this time positions were filled. But we do need people, we do need bodies on the ground, we do need the continued support, financial donations and supply donations. We do need the bodies to help establish the staging, communications, logistics, and up at the mine site itself.

SR: (0:12:15.6) I want to stress for the people listening. So long as you get sufficient donations coming in, you will cover gas for guys that want to come volunteer, right?

JR: Yeah, we’ve prioritized that. Folks that are within a tank of fuel, we’ve done the best we can. If we have someone that drives all the way from Michigan or Alabama or Massachusetts, we want to make sure they have money to get home. As we are able to, we are giving fuel money out to assist those people with getting here and getting home.

SR: So I encourage folks listening to go to the JoCo OK website. There’s a donate button right there, that goes directly to that fund. JR, give them that website.

JR: Oathkeepersjoco.com. It gives all the current status of the operation, what our current requirements are for personnel. It also has a daily press briefing, a situation briefing put out by Mary so people understand what is going on and what the current status is. There are video clips and pictures so people can see and hear directly from the miners and the participants in this operation how it’s running and how everything is running together. You can donate to support everybody here financially if you can’t make it. There’s also the opportunity to donate to the miners’ legal defense fund as they fight their legal battle with BLM, to help them out.

SR: (0:13:59.8) So folks can get there, you’re looking for, reading right off the website, you’re looking for camp cooks, security and tactical personnel, medical, communications, logistics, and also personnel equipment. So you’re looking for wet weather gear, waterproof boots, first aid kits, ham radios, etc.

JR: Yes. We’ve had some very expensive medical equipment provided to us. We had a tactical manufacturer send us body armor and kit for guys that didn’t have it. We put that in a cache. People that don’t have body armor can check it out, have that armor as their doing their job at the mine. And then they’re

SR: Who is that? Or do they want to be anonymous?

JR: I don’t have the info in front of me, but I would like to give a shout out to those guys. They raised I think $3k through a GoFundMe campaign. They took that and sent us close to $6k. Basically got their cost equipment. That was able to kit out a few guys that, when the gentleman from Alabama drove out, he basically had his rifle and some mag holders. We were able to give him a set of body armor to use while he’s here. When he goes back to Alabama, that body armor will go back in the cache for the next guy that comes in who doesn’t have equipment.

SR: That’s outstanding. You also have, at the site helping you, retired Army Sgt. Major Joseph Santoro, who I asked to come in from Colorado. Sgt. Major Santoro, are you on there?

JS: I am.

SR: What’s your.

JR: Oh good we got him up from his nap

SR: What’s your assessment of the operation there? Did you hear that? He said they finally got you up from your nap.

JS: Yeah right, he can’t constantly bust my testicles, you know how that works. But that’s okay.

SR: I asked you to go down there because of your experience, you spent 25 years in the Army. What’s your assessment of the operation down there?

JS: I’m gonna tell you straight up, I have never seen such professionalism from so many people from so many disparate organizations. Everybody is working together. The attitude here is not how or when are we going to get it done, it’s let’s get it done as quickly as possible at minimal cost. I’ve not ever heard a discouraging word, if you will, on the prairie.

SR: (0:16:56.5) Good to go. Very solid. What’s your assessment of the guys coming in from around the country, what are your thoughts on that?

JS: Coming in from the trenches?

SR: No the guys coming in from around the country.

JS: Oh. Every one of them is here to protection the Constitution. That’s what we’re all about. They don’t want to shoot any worse than anyone else does, but they’re prepared to do exactly what our forefathers did if it’s a necessity, let’s hope it’s not but we’ll see.

SR: What was your motivation for going there, if you don’t mind me asking?

JS: Very simple. To protect the Constitution, help my fellow patriots stand up against the current administration.

SR: Good to go. You’re in charge of logistics there. What are your current needs? What do you want to tell folks?

JS: Well, we’re working the underground railroad. We’re using money donations, and we have people constantly coming up to our front gate here at the staging area. Every day they bring different things. They’ve brought shower equipment, clothing, food, cooking equipment. We’ve had the local women fixed food for us over the weekend, when we’re going through the complete changeover. I’m telling you what, these people in Oregon have supported us immeasurably. If it wasn’t for them, we wouldn’t be able to continue to operate.

SR: So you have the support of the locals and the folks in rural areas in Oregon.

JS: Yeah. Let me give you an idea. We had a fellow come in from Roseburg, Oregon. He’s bringing us a 30ft. ham radio tower with 4 elements. He’s just going to donate it. We had another gentleman donate a small class-c motor home, so we have some place to put our PIO. We had another gentleman from a church here bring in a 40x80 tent that we’re going to put our kitchen in, be able to store our food too. Things are going very well. I’m real happy from that standpoint. We’ve got the tent, we’ve got 4 laptops, we’ve got a printer. We’re getting a freezer on an all-call through the railroad. We’re asking for reefer, I understand that’s incoming. We just got a generator, I don’t know the size of it. We just got a wash station, for next to the port-a-potties. We’re looking for 2 wifi hotspots, that would be a real help. As far as personnel goes, we need some cooks. 7 days a week, we have 1 fella who is holding the fort through the week, and the ladies from the local area are fixing our food on the weekend. That’s helping us through, but we could use additional cooks. We’ve got medical people, 4 of them, but we could use probably 1 or 2 throughout the week, so we could have 1 down here and 1 up on the hill. Almost all those people are currently employed, so I can appreciate that. Anything else you need to know?

SR: Your big needs are medical, cooks, and some extra radio operators to give some guys relief, right?

JS: Hoorah. That would be very good. We’re working all those issues, don’t misunderstand. But if we can get it out to our membership nationwide, if there’s anybody who wants to come down and be part of one hell of a good team, supporting the Constitution, we’ll greet them with open arms.

SR: (0:21:14.7) Good to go. And other sister groups too, we’re not confining this to OK.

JS: Oh no. III%, Oregon folks, people from Idaho III%. We’re getting folks from all over the US. Some are just walk-ins like a fellow who came in 2 days ago from Bosnia. He is a naturalized citizen of the US. He said when he pulled up to the gate, hi my name’s Elvis, I’m here to protect the Constitution of the US, will you take me? I just looked at him and said, well Elvis, by god you’re back from the dead, you better believe we will. It’s hard to argue with folks like that. My god, you know, he drove all the way from Boston, Mass, to be here. He went to our website, so if anybody is wondering if our website is attracting anybody, you better believe it. We’re attracting III%, and other groups out of different states. It’s paying off.

SR: Out of this, like Joseph was saying earlier about the medical team that’s forming up, out of this will come experience and lessons learned and refinement, as we go forward. We learned a lot of lessons at Ferguson. In fact, we learned a lot of lessons at Bundy Ranch we’re trying to apply now. Every time any of these incidents happen, it refines our knowledge and makes us better every time. I think it’s a good thing. Across the whole freedom movement.

JS: Hallelujah. We’re trying to digitize all of the different types of logs we’re going to need. Keeping track of incoming food and equipment so we don’t lose this, and if it’s personal, we’re having them put their name on there in indelible ink and their phone number, as well as fill out a property sheet that tells us their name and address and phone number and that sort of thing. We’re being diligent to try to get the stuff back.

SR: That’s excellent. I know there was a request from I think Scott Hicks, one of your local guys in Oregon, he’d requested a couple of quads. Scott are you on?

SH: I am. We are lucky that we do have 1 quad on site, it’s a 4WD with a locking differential. It’s very necessary in this terrain. But the problem we’ve had is one group has to go off in one direction to do something that requires a quad, then another group needs to do something else in a different direction that requires a quad. We’re grateful to have the one, Joseph was kind enough to bring his personal quad up and we’ve been taking care of the equipment. Having a second one would be a huge blessing to be able to spread that out, so people can do what they need to do. Moving trucks and vehicles around is much more difficult than moving a small quad that can carry 2 people.

SR: (0:24:26.4) Excellent. Scott you said you’ve been up on the mine site from the beginning. What’s your assessment of the situation?

SH: I went on the advance team to see what was going on. I told my fiancée that I would be gone for 4 hours, grabbed my basic gear – not my camping gear or anything – and just went up, in fact I rode with some of the other guys from the leadership team. I looked at it all and listened to what the miners had to say, and we realized that it was immediately necessary to secure the mine. That wasn’t a week or two out, it was immediate. The security of the mine and the caretaker was something that had to be handled then and there. I’ve been blessed being a service protected disabled vet, so I have more time than many other people.

SR: Scott hold on. Can you say that again? We had radio chatter behind you.

SH: Yeah. I’ve been blessed in the fact that I’m a disabled veteran, so I have the time to do other things. I don’t have to work a regular job. I said okay I’ll stay, and I’ve been there pretty much ever since. I’ve come down to wash clothes and spend a night in my bed at home, then I turn around and go right back up. The professionalism I’ve seen, I can tell you from my military experience, I have never seen a group of people that come from all different places and backgrounds, from every skill set you can imagine, gel together in one spot in one mission so well. I’m sure the Sgt. Major has never seen anything like it before. I know military groups that would bicker from unit to unit, and argue and chest thump, all that kind of stuff, the old gorilla beating his chest thing. None of that happens here. People come up, they say where can you use me. The thing most people don’t understand is that we don’t need a bunch of guys that are just security. We need people for everything. I had my fiancée quit her job to come up and cook, because it was a necessity. We’ve had other people quit their jobs to be here. That’s how concerned they are with what’s going on with our government trying to take control of stuff that’s not theirs. It doesn’t belong to them. The documentation is there, I read it myself the first day. I can see it in black and white. I’m not a lawyer, but I can read documentation and law and go, yep that’s says what it says. It’s all there. People

SR: (0:27:16.7) What was it the miners told you at press time that needed to get going right away?

SH: It’s the oldest continually running mine in the country. The law dates back to the 1800s. The law hasn’t changed. The only thing that has changed is that the BLM was created and decided to start pushing their weight around. These guys should be able to be running right now, and it’s prime season. It’s bright, sunny, nice outside. They should be up there running their mine. They shouldn’t be sitting there being told they can’t do anything. They can’t even cut wood. They can’t run their saw mill. They can’t fix the road. They can’t improve anything. They can’t do anything because they have an absolute stop order that they can do nothing to the mine right now. Yet they have all the documentation to prove that BLM has no jurisdiction over that.

SR: The concern of the miners was that the BLM wouldn’t even give them a chance. They were concerned the BLM wouldn’t give them a chance to appeal or fight it in court, just burn down that cabin and confiscate or destroy their equipment, right?

SH: I slept in that cabin the first night, and I really didn’t sleep. George was kind enough, like I said I didn’t have my camping gear, I just said okay I’ll stay. Everybody else went and I stayed. I laid in George’s bed all night, looking out the windows. There are these cool windows, you can see all the way out around the cabin. Just looking for a light in the distance. I could not fall asleep, no matter how hard I tried, because I was waiting for that movement, that light, somebody to be coming up the road or whatever. Because I was concerned about the caretaker and the property and their stuff. The BLM is really good at coming in and taking all the miners’ equipment, burning their cabin, then they impound all their equipment. Then trying to get it back, from what I’ve. I’ve spent a lot of time with the miners now, I’ve been up there the entire time. They hang on to the equipment up to the point where the miners basically don’t have a shot at getting their mine back, then if they’re lucky they get their equipment back after 8 years of appeals. Now, 8 years later, you finally get your equipment back, but you’re worn out and tired and don’t want to do it anymore.

SR: (0:29:39.9) It’s kind of like having your guns confiscated by the ATF. You’ll get them back in a big barrel full of salt water maybe.

SH: Yeah. They’re not taking care of your equipment for 8 years, it’s sitting in an impound yard rotting. It’s pathetic, and it’s ridiculous. I can tell you that the hearts of the patriots that are coming up here. It doesn’t matter what group you’re part of, it doesn’t matter if you call yourself III%, a certain militia group, whatever. We’re all just patriots. I saw this one kid, he’s in his late 20s. He sold his firearms, his furniture, everything he had, so he could leave his home state to come do this. Now that was taken care of. I brought it up to leadership, said this is what this kid did and they handled the financial expenses of that. But that’s how convinced he is that it’s necessary for him to be here, and I’m grateful to have him by my side. Because that devotion to the Constitution, to the brotherhood of our country as a whole is so powerful. You can’t stop that. You can’t stop a man who believes in his country and his Constitution.

SR: (0:31:04.9) That’s the guy from Alabama, is that right?

SH: Sure is.

SR: That’s pretty awesome. What’s the. What I see going on across the whole West is that people are being put upon by the BLM and the EPA. Doing everything they can to shut down their access to the land, to shut down their traditional livelihoods, whether it’s logging, ranching, farming, now mining. It just seems to be a continual assault on the West. I think people are realizing that, this is not some kind of coincidence, this is part of a concerted effort to destroy the industry of the West and the livelihood of the people. These are not wealthy industrialists and multi-million dollar corporations we’re talking about, these are small ranchers and farmers and miners. They’re just doing the best they can to eke out a living, as they always have, right?

SH: Absolutely. We’re talking about guys that are, what, 20, 30, 40 years from their death. We’re not talking about young guys, we’re talking about old miners who have been through it all. They just want to work their mine. They don’t want to do anything but work it the same way it was worked in the 1800s. The BLM has so much overreach, especially in this area, I like to go gold processing. I like to pan in the creeks and that kind of stuff. I also like metal detecting. We have an area here that’s 1800s mine in a different area, the BLM locks the gates and never unlocks them. There’s a church from the 1800s, St. Patricks of the Woods, that’s out in the area behind the BLM locked gate that you can’t get to. It’s not winter time, it’s not a possible damage to the roadways. BLM just doesn’t want anybody out there on public lands. They just keep the gates locked until somebody complains enough that they can get open. Me as a historian, I used to go find pieces of history and go metal detecting and stuff, I can’t go out there. I’m also a disabled veteran myself. I can’t hike that stuff. So if the gate isn’t open, I can’t get to it. Yet it’s public lands and public roads that I should be able to access.

SR: (0:33:23.4) That’s changed the last few years that’s happened?

SH: No they’ve been doing this a long time. This is not a new thing. This is just finally people are standing up and saying we’ve had enough. Usually the BLM gates are locked during the winter time in snow areas or in high rainfall areas to protect the roadways so they don’t get washed out by guys going out, 4x4ing, ripping up the roads, or getting out there and freezing to death and dying. There’s good reason for a BLM gate in the middle of winter. But when they just lock out public lands throughout the year for no apparent reason, it’s overreach.

SR: Yeah, gotcha. Well what do you want to say to the folks listening out there about coming out to support the effort? Why should they do it?

SH: Because it’s the right thing to do. Our forefathers stood up and said I will regardless of the cost. My family came to this family in 1621 on the ship Fortune, Robert Hicks came to this country then. So I have a vested interest. But every other person in this land should have a vested interest, too. And if you can’t come, if you can’t personally be here, donate. If it’s a dollar, if it’s five dollars. If you’ve got a million to give, give a million. Whatever. Just do something. Because there are so many people out there who say, oh if I had the time, if I didn’t have kids, if I didn’t have this or that. Guess what, between me and my fiancée we have 8 kids. And we’ve got family members taking care of them so we can be doing what we need to be doing, because they understand how important it is. It’s not just me and my fiancée sacrificing, it’s my parents and her parents that are all sacrificing to help take care of kids at the house, so we can do the job at the mine. You can make all the excuses you want, but either go or help other people who can go. A lot of us who are going don’t have the financial resources to do this, we’re just doing it anyways. If anybody can help alleviate that, we need it. OK needs it, we need more equipment and tools, things to make it go smoother and easier. But I tell you, the number of people out there and the number of people working together and the way this is all gelling. If anybody else around the country wants to know how to stand up, take this as an example. Start asking JOCO OK about how they ran their operations. This is the model. The model will develop over time, it will get better and better. But I can tell you, this is the best organized movement of people I’ve ever seen in my life.

SR: (0:36:21.5) Good to go. You’ve got solid, good, local competent leadership, then everyone comes in behind them. That seems to make sense. They know the terrain and the people. They’re trusted by the community. In this case the miners approached them and asked for their assistance. I think that’s the answer, that’s what our forefathers would want us to do, is have a good competent local leadership team ready to go in every community, whether it’s in OK or not. I don’t care what banner it’s under, as long as their competent and organized. Hey, what’s the sentiment among the miners and other folks as far as being willing to stand up and exercise their rights.

SH: I know the response from the miners has been impressive to say the least. A group of miners actually went up to a rock slide that the BLM refused to clear, that was covering a roadway that went to a lot of other mines. The BLM wouldn’t go out and take care of it, so the miners went out and cleared the road and now people that haven’t been on their mines in a long time are back out there because of this. They’re organizing together, they’re starting to create tighter bonds and relationships. Because they understand that the only way they can keep their individual mines going is by working with all the other mine owners. Most of these guys are, you know they like to be away from other people, be in their own mine and do their own thing, but they realize that if they don’t work together, that Big Brother that’s coming down on top of them, they’re not going to be able to fight them. But as a group, they can really fight back legally. And as a group, they can share experiences. The amount of stories that have been coming out of the woodwork from various other miners in other areas, not even just in Josephine County, BLM overreach and different things, has been huge. I see it as a community that’s been divided that’s coming together, especially with the miners realizing that they have to be tied to each other to protect each other. An umbrella doesn’t open up with one stay, it takes 15, 20. Now all those guys are starting to come together and man, it’s making a difference. BLM is not happy about it, they see what’s going on and realize what’s changing. They’re going to have to change the way they do business, because we’re changing the way we do business.

SR: (0:38:59.4) Right, if you’re united, they can’t come at you guys one at a time, they have to deal with the entire united community. It’s a different ballgame for them. That’s excellent. Let me ask JR again. What’s the current status of any kind of relationship with the sheriff or interaction with the sheriff’s department.
 JR: I’ve reached out to the sheriff’s departments a number of times. Unfortunately, Sheriff Daniels has been disengaged in this. He’s new in office. We were hoping that he would come in and stand with the miners, hold up the Constitution and keep BLM out. But he seems content to sit on the fence. The last conversation I had, I invited him out to see staging, see the mine, talk with the miners. He said no no, that’s your deal, I don’t want to get in the middle of it. We did have former Sheriff Gilbertson come out and make a public statement that he does support the miners and he basically condoned [sic] BLM’s overreach and their aggressive tactics, trying to deny due process. But we have had one of the county commissioners

SR: Hold on, you said Sheriff Gilbertson said he condoned it? Or you mean he condemned it?

JR: Condemned it. He condemned the BLM action against the miners. Basically he condemned them denying the miners their 5A right to due process. One of the county commissioners, Commissioner Heck, has been engaged, he’s been out, up to the mine, has talked to the miners. My understanding is he will be putting out a public statement of support of the miners today or tomorrow. Carl Wilson, one of the elected state representatives, today or tomorrow will also be putting out a public statement supporting the miners and condemning the BLM’s action violating their constitutional right to due process. But we’ve not seen any of that type of activity from Sheriff Daniels, unfortunately.

SR: (0:41:33.7) This goes to show the critical importance of the sheriff. Sheriff Gilbertson, who was the prior sheriff, until last year, the last election cycle. He was a constitutional sheriff, had gone to Sheriff Mack’s CSPOA conferences. I met with him when I came to visit you guys down there. He’s a solid man. Let me ask you a question. If this had happened under his watch, if he had still been sheriff, what would have been different?

JR: This would not be happening. Literally. If this had happened on Sheriff Gilbertson’s watch, we would not be here because he would not have allowed it to happen. The miners would have gone to him, he would have told BLM they’re not allowed to go up on the line. He probably would have revoked BLM law enforcement authority, prohibited them from going up there. He’s always stood very staunchly on the Constitution, and my personal belief is that if Sheriff Gilbertson was still holding office, this never would have occurred. I believe BLM was testing Sheriff Daniels, and since then Sheriff Daniels has not been engaged. We know he’s talked with BLM, with other federal agencies, Oregon State Police. He just doesn’t seem to have, he put out a press release stating that he was mediating between the BLM and the miners. I spoke to the miners the next day and said when did you speak to the sheriff, they told me they had not. They had never spoken to the Sheriff, yet he put out a press release saying he was mediating between the two. So he’s enjoying the political limelight. But for someone taking the stand against the federal government, he has been absent.

SR: (0:43:31.9) And he’s not even doing what he said he was doing, being a mediator, let alone a defender.

JR: No, not at all. How are you a defender if you refuse to show up, look at the mine, look at the situation, talk to the miners? That’s not being a defender. Sadly, the reason we’re all here is because he did not stand up and tell BLM to back down, they were not going to go in there. His deputy, Jason Stanton, is the one that went in with the BLM deputy law enforcement officer and served the papers to the miners, and Deputy Stanton’s the one who stated, when George, one of the claim owners said we’re law abiding constitutional people, Deputy Stanton said I have issues with the Constitution. That’s very disturbing, that’s what brought the miners to our OK meeting. Hence, here we are today. I’d like to think. I met on Monday with Sheriff Daniels, I showed him those sworn affidavits which are now on the OK national site. We had a discussion. He told me he would be talking with BLM. I heard back from him I think the next day, he told me everything was going to be alright. I’ve checked in with him every other day roughly, invited him out to see the operation each time. He’s still been a no-show.

SR: (0:45:06.1) What did he have to say about his deputy saying he had a problem with the Constitution.

JR: He told me that was unacceptable.

SR: Did he fire him?

JR: No, not as far as we know. He did call the

SR: What is the word

JR: He called out of concern that the deputy was receiving threats for his statement, kind of asked if we could help with that. I said we don’t condone any threats, but basically the deputy owns the statement, he made it. As far as I know, the deputy hasn’t been fired, he’s still been working. I don’t believe there’s been any type of accountability for it.

SR: So the word unacceptable for him doesn’t really mean what we think it means. It’s obviously acceptable.

JR: I think, you know. If you want to talk about unacceptable, hey, you’re wearing a law enforcement uniform, you’re endorsing the law, supporting the law. You can’t perform your job, if you took an oath to the Constitution of the United States, to uphold and defend, and then in the course of your duties you say you have issues with the Constitution, you need to take off the uniform and find some other type of work to do. You cannot stay and remain in law enforcement.

SR: Amen. He has no business being behind the badge. The sheriff has no business having a deputy like that on his team. That kind of tells you where the sheriff’s at.

JR: No. That’s the concern. If that deputy stays employed. If you have issues with the Constitution, go do something else.

SH: I have something to interject on that. I know Sheriff Gilbertson, the former sheriff, personally. I know for a fact that a constitutional sheriff, even with an extremely limited force as we have in Josephine County, had this happened on his watch, had the BLM refused whatever he laid out to them to say you can’t go there, he would have happily deputized a large number of people like ourselves to be on that mine and to do the job for him. Yet we have this man here who won’t even go up to the mine, Sheriff Daniels, that won’t even go look and see what’s going on. He won’t even discipline a man who says he has problems with the Constitution. It’s amazing how much of a difference there is between the two, the former sheriff and the current sheriff. I felt a lot safer with the sheriff we had previously, because I knew that if I stood up for my constitutional rights and they were violated, I could go to him personally, I could go to his office and tell him what happened, he would listen and take appropriate action. Right now, I’m on my own because my sheriff right now isn’t going to do that. He’s not even going to talk to me if I have an issue like that. That is

SR: That’s why you guys are having to do it yourselves. If the sheriff is not going to do his job, which is to honor his oath to support and defend the Constitution, then he leaves the citizenry on their own to do it by themselves. That’s pretty sad. Your point is well taken, as JR said a minute ago, if Sheriff Gilbertson was in. All it is is one election. That’s why it’s so critical for people to focus on their county sheriff election, because one good sheriff in the right place at the right time can make a huge difference. The bad guys know that. That’s why they’re hostile to CSPOA and to our efforts to reach out to sheriffs and remind them of their duty.

JR: As SH said, I’m sure Sheriff Gilbertson, he definitely would have deputized OK or whoever’s up there to protect the mine and the miners from BLM action. I don’t doubt that in the least. What do you do? You can’t go to your sheriff and say hey I’ve got this situation. He’s a politician, he’s been on the fence. We had SB941, which is universal background checks. Just prior to this getting started, we had a protest because Sheriff Daniels opposed the bill, but the question was asked to him specifically, if this bill should pass, the Josephine County charter prohibits any official or representative in Josephine County from enforcing anything that infringes or erodes 2A. Our question was if it should pass, what was his intentions. Was he not going to enforce? He refused to answer our question. He actually snuck out of the backside of the jail and left so he didn’t have to face us. He called me later that afternoon, I had lunch with him and we discussed it. He said I’m working on it, and he came out with a press release that basically stated that he had more pressing matters to focus on with his limited budget, like felonies and other crimes, and this would be low priority, he didn’t have the funding to address and deal with it. So of course the immediate discussion came up, wait a minute, if you did have the funding, you would be enforcing it? Even on that, he’s still not come out and stated, if SB941 passes into law, I as a sheriff of Josephine County will not be enforcing this, as other sheriffs around the state of Oregon have already done. So that’s what we’re working with. The sad part is, when you don’t have a sheriff that’s willing to take a stand on the Constitution, understand where it’s at, you have situations like this develop. I think he’s under the belief, because he’s not come here or been involved with it, he’s okay. What he doesn’t realize is his lack of involvement, his lack of willingness to stand up to the BLM and say no you’re not doing that in Josephine County, has created this situation. It’s the reason we’re here.

SR: (0:51:39.0) He’s like [garbled] washing his hands.

JR: Oh yeah. The reason we’re here today is he didn’t tell the BLM stop, give those guys their day in court or I’m removing your authority to enforce any law in Josephine County, which he has the power to do. He just doesn’t understand that.

SR: Now they know that he won’t do anything to stop them, so they feel like they have a green light. And the only reason they now have a change of heart apparently is because of you guys being there. This is kind of like at Bundy Ranch where Sheriff Gilespie, the sheriff of Clark County Nevada, if he’d have done his job and defended the rights of the ranching family down there, then that wouldn’t have happened. You’re right, this is what leads to these things, where you have sheriffs who don’t do their responsibility, don’t do their duty, and it leaves the people themselves having no choice but to step in and do his job for him.

JR: That’s what it comes down to.

SH: We’re saying that being sheriff is an easy job. We’re saying that if someone steps up to you and asks you a direct question, give a direct goddamn answer. Do not turn around and sidestep it and be a politician. That’s not your job, your job is to be sheriff and protect the people. If we ask you a direct question, we expect a direct answer.

SR: Being sheriff doesn’t mean stepping into your office, back off the street, and letting people fend for themselves. That’s not what a sheriff does.

SH: Not a real sheriff.

SR: Yeah. It’s like having the bad guys run the town and having the sheriff off on vacation, out to lunch. Or gone fishing.

JR: Hey Stewart, my comms guy Doug had to get back in on the radios because we’re maintaining a 24 hour radio watch. One thing he wanted to bring out for anyone who’s listening, especially OK nationwide. We need OK to get their ham license. It’s a 35 question test, it costs $15, and you can get your technician license. It’s critical that people make the time to get their ham radio license. Because in this situation, due to the topography and the terrain, that’s our communication network with the mine. They are in a very remote, isolated, we’re working through a repeater, but it’s a ham repeater. So everyone that’s on there has to follow the proper protocol and be licensed ham operators. That’s one of those areas that has hurt us and hamstrung us a bit, because we have not had a lot of people in here that are hams. So I would challenge OK nationwide, get your ham license. It’s going to be needed.

SH: (0:54:34.0) And don’t just get your technician class license. If you have the understanding of how to take tests, how to read books, how to get and process information, we want you to get your general class license, then your extra class license. There are certain things we can do with a whole bunch of technicians, but that limits us. It’s better than not having anything, but then we also want those general class and extra class licenses as well. It’s not that hard, they give you the answers to every single question that they will ask on any question, you just have to study it all. As many people as are listening right now, the first thing you need to do is go on QRZ.com, start looking at the test question for your technician class license, start practicing and get with your local ham radio operators group, and get tested. Then start working on your general class. Once you get your general class, you’ll know what it takes to get the extra. Ham radio is the only way, when cellphones don’t work, that you’re gonna have to communicate.

SR: (0:55:40.7) Good point. One of the reasons why you want to get the license is then you can practice and learn to use the radios. If you don’t practice often, you’re not going to be able to do it when the chips are down.

SH: Yeah. I was just thinking on logistics, I was just watching Sgt. Major, and we’re going to need more cookies. He’s hovering over by the cookies.

SR: Okay, well send more in, cookies and cigars. Okay guys, anything else you want to say to the folks out there? Did Mary want to interject, your PIO?

SH: I’d like to hear from Mary. She’s been working on the media side of things, one of the things she’s been working incredibly hard on is getting accurate media and accurate information to the press. That’s one thing on this operation that’s hurt us. Social media is not an intelligence source. We have used it to our benefits with getting out interviews with the miners so people can see them firsthand. But Mary’s been working tirelessly with the mainstream media making sure facts and accurate information get out there. Let her describe what she’s working on. It’s one of those things, that’s why we direct everybody to one site so they know exactly what’s going on. Because not everything you’re reading is the truth. So Mary can fill in on what’s happening with that.

ME: (0:57:14.6) It’s a really good opportunity for other groups to realize how important handling the media becomes in any kind of incident. At first, you’re overwhelmed by the interest and you have to form relationships with news directors and television personnel and print medium. At some point, I made the decision to vet some people, because I just couldn’t possibly deal with everyone. That turned out to be a pretty good decision. We recently had a reporter fly out from New York. It was an unusual choice, but his photographer said to me just a couple days ago, you know the face of the Constitution from a photographer’s standpoint is pretty dull and quiet. You guys just made it come to life. And I thought wow, we turned that guy right there. Yeah, it is a big battle of misinformation. I get on every radio show I can. It’s pretty unusual if I don’t have a day where I’m on a radio show. Some days I’ve done as many as 4. I can tell you, if we talk about the kind of help we need, I could use a secretarial staff. I could use somebody who knows something about IT. You have to get a relationship with the media, once you have that you become the face, you become the one that everyone funnels through. I’m noticing that as I go on the radio, I’m always asked to come back, which is kind. But as I catch them out on YouTube or anywhere else, we’re getting thousands of hits. That means there’s a huge interest in this. I think it’s something to watch and learn from.

SR: (0:59:23.9) Good to go.

JR:  I want to follow up with that Stewart. I’ve got operational command and control of what’s going on out here. For anybody as we go down the road, it’s physically impossible for me to meet all the needs with what has to be done. The media and the inquiries from the media take up a tremendous amount of resource time. Having a very strong logistics, supply, communication, PIO are critically important to something like this. This has freed me up to focus on the mission, which is the security of the Sugar Pine Mine. So when you vet your people and have competent people that take that media direction, that take those things, it’s something you don’t have to do. My days are still 18 hour days. They are having their 16-18 hour days with all this stuff too. When anybody goes in and takes operational control of these things down the road, they have to understand that’s a critical element. They can’t do it themselves, they have to rely on their team leads and let them do their jobs and trust them in their jobs. That’s been huge. Mary’s controlled the media, maintained access and vetting the way she did, that would have eaten up 60% of my resource time when I needed to be focused on other things like people and set up and security at the mine and those types of things. That’s a needed item, but it’s one of those items that needs to be dealt with because it’s important to get accurate information and message out to everybody that wants to help or is looking to come.

SR: (1:01:18.8) Agreed. That’s why it’s good to have a dedicated media staff. In fact, that’s probably something we should start calling for for OK in every chapter. One thing you still need, though, is a good cameraman to go with that. I’m sure Mary can confirm that. It’d be good for her to have a dedicated camera team with her at all times, right Mary?

ME: Absolutely. Sometimes it’s backup to what the media does to your interviews. It would really be a security thing for us as well where we could counter some of that.

SR: Absolutely. You should be recording any time you do an interview, even just on your phone. I do that all the time. Then they know that if they misquote you, you’ll call them on it with your own copy. That’s very good. Let me know if you need. I know Northwest Liberty News, Jason, would be willing to come back out again. Let me know if you need him and I’ll pass the message on.

ME: I will take all the help I can get. I will just put that out there.

SR: Okay. So if you’ve got any good volunteer camera folks out there who know how to take good footage and upload it to the internet, you’re more than welcome. Right Mary?

ME: Absolutely right. We’ll treat you well.

SR: (1:02:40.0) Good to go. They’ll feed you well. Well, a lot of lessons learned out of this. We learned a lot from Bundy Ranch, we learned a lot from Ferguson. We’ll learn more from this. As we said earlier, it’s going to get better every time. And the broader freedom movement will learn from it as well. I’ll look forward to the after-action reports and lessons learned that come out of this operation. Any closing comments? Anything else you want to say to the folks?

ME: I’d just like to. Look at me talking over Joseph. I’d like to say thank you for all the support and good wishes that I hear when I’m talking to the media and on these radio shows. I need to pass that along, thank you very much.

SH: I want to make a point. Mary are you a combat veteran?

ME: No.

SH: Okay, that’s my point. We don’t need people that are necessarily combat veterans. We don’t need people that are specifically any one type of thing, we can use everybody in some fashion or another. We got people that bake spies, that pick up trash, I’m watching a guy right now sorting through recyclables, water bottles and stuff to make sure it goes to the right location. That guy has to be at least in his 80s, if not older. I’m watching him out the window right now. So we can use everybody, as long as you’re 18 or over. We just need bodies to show up and do the job, come help us. The more the better. Just be prepared to be here for a while, especially the weekday people. If you’ve got time, please come.

JR: I’ve got to reiterate what Scott’s staying. It’s bodies. It’s not the guys on security team, that’s 10% of the operation. It’s an important part, and we’ve got very well disciplined, high skilled people on that. But it’s all the logistical support to keep that running. We need support personnel. It can be shuttle drivers, to lead in and out of the mine because of the terrain they’re driving through. It can be people checking in at the gate. Running logistics, answering emails, inventorying supplies, staffing the radio for ham communication, running the medical tent, just helping in the cook kitchen. I’m going in, when I walk through here I literally have people chasing me down, handing me a plate of food saying I haven’t seen you eat today, you need to sit down and eat something. We’re very busy and constantly in motion. There’s a lot of moving parts to this. We have the site security where literally as a vehicle pulls up to come on to our compound and staging, they are vetted, signed in, and their vehicle is inspected. Our security team does a once-over on their vehicle, underneath the carriage, inside the vehicle, they look the whole thing over before they’re allowed on the security compound. So you know, opening and closing the gate to let people in and out, that type of support is critical, and it’s needed. Anybody who can come, this is still an active operation, we do not have a stand down, we need people to come out and support it.

SR: (1:06:01.7) One last point I want to make. You see some chatter online, saying they say it’s not a standoff so why should we even go there, OK are making this bigger than it really is. The whole point is to preclude that from happening. You’re there to cut it off at the pass, to let BLM know they can’t just run roughshod over these people and light their cabin on fire. You’re whole point is to keep things calm and give the miners a chance to get their day in court. You can’t do that if you wait until the cabin’s burning.

JR: That’s a good point Stewart. There’s a couple things that have come out of this, analogies and things. One was, well why do you need security teams up there with guns? Every time BLM came on that mining claim, they were armed. They didn’t come in holding a bouquet of flowers. The second part is they have a history of going onto claims, confiscating equipment, and burning cabins to the ground. When they do that, they go in with a tactical team. That tactical team clears and secures that mine site. Then their fire teams, their firefighters and fire staff come in and burn the cabin. That’s how they operate. As Rick said, the only reason BLM did not come onto my claim and burn down my cabin is because he had OK up there, III% up there, constitutional groups protecting his 5A rights, that were armed. We are exercising 2A. This is how it works. When someone is denied their 4A due process with illegal search and seizure and 5A due process, then we stand there professionally and quietly, exercising 2A, so they don’t come in and do that or violate it. If people want to look at that, when you go to the Bank of America and there’s a security guard standing outside to protect their assets from being robbed, that’s exactly what we’re doing up there, protecting their assets from being illegally taken by BLM. That’s what’s so critical about this. I don’t know what people are looking for, if it’s a standoff or whatever they want to title it. We are having a huge impact here, we are protecting constitutional rights. At the end of the day, that’s what this is about. It’s about protecting our constitutional rights and keeping government constrained by the Constitution as it was intended by our Founding Fathers.

SR: (1:08:31.7) I think a fair analogy frankly is with the arsonist in Ferguson. Our guys guarded buildings against arsonists who wanted to set them on fire. And unfortunately BLM is acting just as badly as arsonists, they want to come light cabins on fire, whether someone’s inside or not. So I see it as analogous to that. I don’t care if the arsonist has a uniform on or not, they’re an arsonist.

JR: It’s a stand up, not a stand off. We’re standing up for what’s right, period. If everybody stands up, there’s no stand off. We don’t have to get to that point that happened at the bridge at Bundy Ranch. We don’t have to get there, as long as we’re there first and we’re there together, the masses are what control what happens. Otherwise you just have small operations units of government control that can control the masses if they don’t stand up together.

SR: That’s the point that I think the Founders’ wisdom spoke to that. They understood that if you’re not united as a community. In their day, every able-bodied male was in the militia. That’s what kept the secret police at bay throughout history. They can’t just come run roughshod over you, if you’re a united community. So you’re right, if people were to stand up together. If everyone in the West were to stand up and start using their land again, start logging and fishing and mining again, start running their own affairs again, what could they do? There’d be too many people doing it all at once.

JR: I had one other thing. We were talking about requests for groups of people, different types of people. One of the things I’ve seen because of exhaustion, because of the hours people are working. I know that I’ve been going to bed at 11 and getting up at 3am. I’ve seen a lot of people hunkered over and bending. If there are any licensed massage therapist that can do physical, muscular, help with people’s aches and pains and stuff, I know the people working the computers, their hands are cramping up. The people walking in the woods, they’re carrying a lot of gear and they’re getting sore. So if there are any licensed massage therapist that can come out and help, I think that would be a great thing to go along with the medical staff.

SR: Alright. So start looking for a backrub.

JR: Shoot for the moon and take what you can get.

SR: Okay. Well thanks guys for taking the time out, I know you guys are busy out there. Really appreciate that. We’re going to do the best we can to get you some more volunteers and more financial support. We’ll do our very best. I’ll look forward to seeing you guys myself, I want to come put eyes on. 
