Stewart Rhodes Interview with Police Chief Mark Kessler
## Uploaded to OathKeepersOK on 1/11/13
## Listened on 10/2/16

## Mostly not verbatim. Check video before quoting

## Keywords: Rhodes; David Codrea; Mark Kessler; police; nullify; 2A; OK member; Sandy Hook; evil; freedom; Congress; Washington; Constitution; Revolutionary War; musket; semi-automatic; resolution; town council; Pennsylvania; rural; sheriff; liberty; oppression; tyranny; oath; unorganized militia; extremist; anti-government; neighborhood watch; training; police auxiliary; Hurricane Sandy; Katrina; foreign army; Founding Father; Patrick Henry; Trench Cox; AR-15; Stalin; Mao; China; Vietnam; Ranger; Thomas Jefferson; hunting; Bill Clinton; AWB; violence; 10A; Tea Party; children; Colorado; pharmaceutical industry; psychotropic drugs; Feinstein; genocide; mass-murder McChrystal; Bill of Rights; enemy of the people; Benedict Arnold; school shootings; armed teachers; concealed carry; mainstream media; liberty movement; despair; veterans; god-given right; community; neighborhood; Rodney King riots; disarmament; confiscation; registration; federalized; militarized; ATF; FBI; DHS; interposition; looting; machine gun; assault weapon; NFA; Heller; Biden; Obama; executive order; UN; treaty; SPLC; Mark Potok; Gunwalker

## Stewart Rhodes; David Codrea; Mark Kessler

SR: This is SR, founder of OK. Today, I’m interviewing Police Chief Mark Kessler, who is a stand up police chief from Gilberton, Pennsylvania, who has made the news recently by essentially nullifying, standing up and saying that he is not going to enforce any infringement on the right of the people to bear arms. He’s proposes a resolution for his town council to sign. I’m joined on this interview with David Codrea of the War on Guns and also of the Gun Rights Examiner. David, say hello to the folks.

DC: Stewart, thanks for having me on. Hi OK.

SR: Good to go. Now, Chief Kessler, really honored to talk to you tonight. You and I spoke for the first time earlier today. I want to point out to the folks listening, to the OK out there, is that you were not a member of OK when you did this, although we’re really honored you have you join us today. We’re privileged that you would join our ranks. But it’s an important point that you decided to do this on your own, it wasn’t something that OK cooked up and SR, that pot stirrer [garbled]. This is something you came up with on your own. Is that correct?

MK: That’s absolutely correct. I didn’t have any guidance from anyone in any way, shape, or form, from any organization, group, or entity. I’m a firm believer in 2A. I just sat down, I’ve been thinking for a while after everything came down after the tragedy up in Connecticut. and the election in particular really had me thinking a lot and the tragedy in Connecticut drove me even more to realize that something bad is going to come down the line. So I need to make a stand for 2A and the American people and all freedom lovers across the country.
 SR: (0:02:02.4) What do you think about the idea in reaction to the tragedy in Connecticut at the school, the idea that Americans that should be disarmed. In particular that they should have to turn in or register themselves or their semi-automatic rifles?

MK: First I’d like to say that what happened in Connecticut was an absolute act of evil by one man who was mentally ill. They should not, these legislators and Congress and Senators and Washington, should not punish the law-abiding citizen for one man’s act of evil. As a law-abiding citizen myself, and from members of my family and my community, I think it goes against the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of Pennsylvania to register any firearms whatsoever, or to reclassify a firearm. Back in the Revolutionary War, when we had to fight the oppressive government back then, which would have been Britain, they used muskets, and we used muskets. Now we’re in a time in history where, through advancement in technology and other things and events making ammunition and stuff like that, our government has semi-automatic weapons, and we the people should also have semi-automatic weapons. Cause we’re not going to fight them, and god-forbid anything like that should come down the pike, with muskets anymore. We’re not going to fight the oppressors with muskets anymore. We have to match their firepower. My stance is I’m totally against any kind of regulations, rules, enactments, executive orders, or anything as far as registering or reclassification of any type of firearms.

DC: (0:04:06.1) Chief, I

SR: That brings up a good point, oh David were you going to add something?

DC: Yeah. I was just gonna try to take the conversation into a slightly different area if I could. That’s with, Chief, with you standing up and doing this. I have to assume, because you report to a town council, that you’re going to have support for this resolution. I’m also going to ask, is there any way, I know here we have public access, is there any way that we’d be able to watch the proceedings online if that happens? Then the follow up to that, beyond your town council, I imagine, and I don’t know how it works in the state of, or the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, right? Do they have some sort of law enforcement accreditation at the state level that could take revenge on you for taking a brave stand?

MK: (0:04:58.3) I’d like to get something up in, as far as a webcast, so everybody interested in this and everybody who supports our cause and 2A and the Constitution could watch as it develops live. I didn’t get to that point yet. The meeting’s on January 24, so I have some time to get that in place. As far as being retaliated against by other law enforcement, state agencies, that’s highly unlikely. Pennsylvania has a very good Constitution. In Article 1 Section 21 where it states the right to bear arms shall not be questioned. That’s that. I mean Pennsylvania has been pretty pro-gun. You have your spots around the state that are anti-gun.

SR: Like Pittsburgh, correct?

MK: Yes. Pittsburgh, Philadelphia. As you know, you cannot carry a gun in Philadelphia. That is an ordinance which Philadelphia passed. There is a state law actually that says you can’t carry a firearm in a city that’s a first class, I think that’s unconstitutional. Philadelphia is one of those cities.

SR: But out in the rural sections, the predominant political power is hopefully still in the hands of folks in the rural sections, is that correct?

MK: (0:06:36.1) Correct.

SR: What’s the level as support, as David was asking, what’s the level of support on the Common Council for this resolution from what you’ve seen so far?

MK: I feel we have a great level of support from Town Council and the Mayor. My mayor supports it. And I spoke to each councilmember individually and asked them where’s there stance on 2A. I got an overwhelming majority of the council that agrees with me. They’re actually very excited that I’m going to be introducing this at the next meeting in January.

SR: That’s awesome news. I think an important point when. We’re going to send this out to our membership and many of them are current serving police officers as well. We’re drafting resolutions from our police members to make a stand and to reach out to their fellow officers. What’s your message. If you could talk to every single police officer, sheriff’s deputy, chief of police, sheriff, all across the country, even the federal law enforcement officers, what would you say to them? What’s your message to them?

MK: (0:07:50.9) I would say to them that I hope that they stand with freedom and liberty, instead of standing with oppressive government and tyranny. They took an oath and they need to stand by that oath to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States and within their jurisdictions as well, their states, if they work for federal government or the state or local level. They all took an oath, and they need to abide by that oath. And they need to defend freedom at any cost.

DC: Chief, just as an ordinary citizen who lives in a relatively small town myself. I understand that according to US Code and founding intent, I’m supposedly a member of the unorganized militia. I’m probably a little old to be legally bound by it, but I certainly feel morally bound as long as I’m physically able to lend my support. And I guess one of the issues that I have is that so often, taking that duty seriously is looked at as you’re some sort of extremist, you’re some sort of anti-government revolutionary. In fact, the true purpose of the militia and of the citizens banding together was for protection of their community. I would like to see more of an effort, and I guess I’m asking you how come there isn’t more of an effort that we see by law enforcement to make the citizenry a part and partner with the police force. I would love to be able to go and train, I would love for them to know that there are people within the neighborhood along the lines of a neighborhood watch. But it times of crisis, I imagine that you would be totally tied up with triaging and taking care of the immediate emergencies, and anything a few miles out, the people would essentially be left on their own. I would think that it would be in everyone’s interest if we were able to coordinate and train and be partners with, as opposed to have an us versus them which we see far too often.

MK: (0:10:03.5) Correct. What we need to do is band together, start networking and get people, get the word and message out that whoever is interested in becoming a reserve officer or part of an unorganized militia type, we need to get the word out to them that we need to band together. Let’s form our grassroots movement. Let’s come in train, you’re welcome to come and train, here’s where we’re going to be training at this day, this time, this is what you need to bring. We need to stay in contact with each other. This is the start of something which I believe is very important in our history. Our freedoms have never been under such attack as they are right now.

SR: One option is a police auxiliary, reserve deputies and also an auxiliary. Many departments across the country, especially ones that are being hurt by budgetary limitations now are relying on retired people and veterans who are willing to come out and aid, like David said, during a hurricane or something like that when you’re over-burdened, when you and your men are taxed to the limit, you can call on your veterans in your community to step up and help you. They can help you do all kinds of things. I think it’s a good idea, especially if we’re looking at a potential social breakdown due to economic deprivation or even economic collapse coming up, we should be thinking very seriously in terms of community preparedness. And as David was pointing out, that was the point of the militia, the community was ready to go, and instead of this top-down, we’ll rely on FEMA to help us out supposedly, we saw with Hurricane Sandy how inept they can be. Instead of that, the community themselves take care of business, and they do so with full enforcement and respect for their own lives.

MK: (0:12:09.1) Absolutely. I couldn’t agree more. I would like to see that also here. I don’t have any policies in effect at this point in time, but that’s a great idea. I believe I’m going to definitely start writing up policies for an auxiliary force, where I can have retired officers or the average citizen, who’s a law-abiding citizen and wants to become a part of an auxiliary to help out in times of crisis, as you say in case of a financial crisis or a natural disaster or something else may come down the pike where I’m tied up with other things and these men and women can come and help out. That’s a fantastic idea.

SR: That reminds me of a point I was going to make earlier. When talking about the militia, the whole point was that they would provide the domestic security force within a state, and then if called into service, Article 1 Section 8 talks about Congress being able to call forth the militia to execute the laws of the Union, to suppress insurrections, and to repel invasions. That’s how powerful these state militias are supposed to be, made up of the people. Powerful enough to repel invasions. As you were saying, at the time there was parity, there was meant to be parity between the arms of the militia and any potential opponent, including foreign invading armies. How do you repel an invasion if you don’t have the capacity to match what they’re doing? It’s the height of absurdity to argue now, these anti-gun rights zealots will argue that you shouldn’t have military weapons. Well actually, those are precisely those are the kinds of arms people are supposed to have to fulfill their duty as the militia. There’s a quote from Founding Father Trench Cox I want to read and get your reaction to. He said, the powers of the sword are in the hands of the yeomanry of America, from 16 to 60; the militia of these free commonwealths entitled and accustomed to their arms, when compared with any possible army, must be tremendous and irresistible. Who are the militia? Are they not ourselves? Is it here then that we shall turn our arms, each man against his own bosom? Cause there was concern by a lot of critics of the new Constitution, like Patrick Henry, that gave too much power to the national government, and Trench Cox who supported the Constitution is saying look guys, don’t worry, you will always have the military power in your hands. He continued and said Congress has no power to disarm the militia. Their swords and every other terrible implement of the soldier are the birthright of an American. The unlimited power of the sword is not in the hands of either the federal or state governments, but where I trust in god it will ever remain in the hands of the people. He wrote this in the Pennsylvania Gazette, of all places, November 20, 1788. There’s a Founding Father from Pennsylvania, that was his opinion about the degree of armament that the people are supposed to have. What’s your reaction to that?

MK: (0:15:20.6) I agree 100%. We have to be able to match, all law-abiding citizens and freedom lovers across this great nation need to have the implements that the oppressors have. You can’t, how do you fight somebody that has firepower like a AR-15 or M-16, which our government carries and more, with rocks? It’s just not going to happen. It’s frightening when you have other countries like Russia and China calling our president to disarm the American people. That’s frightening. Mass murder that Stalin committed, he killed approximately 60 million of his own citizens. You have Mao in China, I don’t even know how many of his own citizens he killed.

DC: At least 75 million.

MK: That’s astounding. They went in and disarmed their citizens then they committed mass murder. 

SR: Speaking of repelling invasions. It’s kind of ironic that two of our long standing potential opponents in this world would who ever have the capacity to invade the US both, or China at least, insists on disarming our population now.

DC: It’s funny because they say that us having a 2A is a human rights violation, coming from these people who basically wrote the book on it. Let me, again, I’m very fascinated by this conversation. Stewart, you deal with military and law enforcement all the time. I do a lot less often. I have a different perspective and curiosity than you do. Chief, I want to know about you as a person. Who is Mark Kessler? What’s your background? How have you come to such a remarkably different point of view on this than so many that many of us in everyday life run across that don’t have the vantage point that Stewart has?

MK: (0:17:50.4) I’d like to say that my father, who’s a Vietnam vet hero and a hero to his country, he raised me to stand for what I believe in. From a young child, I was an avid hunter. As I grew and got older, I was always into firearms and shooting and going out with my friends and family and target shooting. Throughout my entire childhood, my mid-teens, and my early 20s. Then one day, I decided that I want to go to the police academy and take this a step further. My love for 2A since becoming a police officer grew stronger and stronger.

SR: Let me ask you. Your dad served in Vietnam. In the Army, correct?

MK: Yes he was in the Army.

SR: He was an Airborne trooper, wasn’t he?

MK: No. He was a Black Beret at the time. In Vietnam he received several medals and he was wounded on several occasions, was shot several times and took shrapnel from a grenade.

SR: Your dad was an Army Ranger most likely, if he wore a black beret.

MK: Correct.

SR: So what does your dad think about his oath? Have you talked to him about his oath to the Constitution and about your oath? Have you had a discussion about that?

MK: Absolutely. He stands fast to this day, all these years later even though he’s been out of the military for some time. All these years later, he stands fast to the oath he took when he signed up, when he was drafted for Vietnam, to this very day he stands beside the Constitution, beside freedom. He fought and bled for this great nation. He’s proud to say that he served the American people and his country. And he will stand again.

SR: (0:20:01.1) How do you feel about your oath, coming from that kind of family background?

MK: I will always defend freedom, no matter what, even after I leave law enforcement. I took an oath, and I will that carry that with me, I will carry that torch for the rest of my life. And I will pass it down to all my children and my family members and my friends, that we need to stand together, stick together and stand together and be for the freedom of this country and liberty of this country. And the right to keep and bear arms as Thomas Jefferson once said, the strongest reason for the people to retain the right to keep and bear arms is as the last resort, to protect themselves against tyranny in government. That’s exactly why we need 2A, and the right to keep and bear arms. That has nothing to do with sporting purposes, as the elites in Washington like Feinstein and the rest of them and the rest of her cronies would like you to believe that it’s a privilege. It’s not a privilege, it’s a right. It has nothing to do with sporting, it has nothing to do with hunting. It has to do with tyranny and government and the people who protect themselves against government.

DC: One of the things.

SR: I appreciate that perspective. One thing I wanted to add to what David was saying earlier is actually, because I talk to police officers from all over the country, from different places, what’s nice to know, and I’d encourage folks out there to keep this in mind, is that you’re not going to hear the mainstream media parading the Mark Kessler’s of the world in front of you. When President Clinton was signing the first Assault Weapons Ban, he didn’t go seek out police chiefs like Mark Kessler who’s not going to go, who’s going to tell him to pound sand. He found the politically motivated chiefs that come from urban areas that support gun control. That’s who you see paraded in front of you, like the former police chief of Seattle calling for the eradication of 2A. He’s the one paraded out in TV. There are many officers across the country, chiefs and sheriffs and deputies and rank-and-file police officers, who feel exactly the same way, and who feel the same way about their oaths. That’s what you have to keep in mind. You might not see them, but they’re there. One of the goals of OK is to reach out to them, that’s why I wanted to talk to Chief Kessler, to make sure people remember that. They do need to start stepping up. We do commend you, Chief, for stepping out like you’ve done. We’re hoping to use this example to get even more police officers to step out in a very public way, I think the time has come for them to step up and publicly choose sides. What do you think about that?

MK: (0:23:02.5) I think you’re absolutely correct, SR. I’d like to commend OK and all the work they do across this great nation and all their members too. You’re absolutely right, you’re not going to see chiefs of police or sheriffs, deputies, patrol officers in any way, shape, or form being paraded around by the anti-gunners that are pro-gun. They’re going to pick out the ones that they know are anti-gun, they’re the ones that are going to call for this. They’re the ones they want to have inspire other law enforcement and pro-gun law enforcement to be anti-gun, which is clearly a bad mistake. Like in Washington, DC, their chief of police has said they need stronger gun control laws. I’m totally against that, I don’t believe in that. I think that ideological thinking is bad for the country and for the American citizens.

SR: What do you think about a person like that police chief who has called for more gun control laws? What do you think about her as a person who has taken an oath to support and defend the Constitution?

MK: I think she violates, she’s definitely violating her oath. She took an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of her state or district or whatever she’s in. She needs to step down, as far as I’m concerned, cause she’s not a true American. She’s with the oppressors. Any law enforcement official that does not uphold their oath that they took to defend the Constitution of the United States and defend the Constitution within their jurisdictions needs to step down. We can’t have that, the American people can’t have that. There’s more and more people standing up to the oppressors and the people in power that took an oath that don’t believe in the Constitution or 2A, they just took it and said it to get more gain, to be in the spotlight. This isn’t about me, it’s not about what I do for a living. This is about what’s coming from my heart, it’s about what I believe in and I hope a lot of Americans in this country believe in.

SR: (0:25:35.0) It’s safe to say that, much like your father. Is your position as chief or as a police officer, is that just a job for you? Or is this more like a calling, that you felt an obligation to serve your country? I know that’s kind of a softball question, I know the answer already.

MK: It was definitely a calling to serve my country. I’ve been doing police work since 1998, and I love my job, I love what I do. I interact with a lot of different people from different backgrounds, ethnics. And it’s just a great way to serve your country. I wasn’t in the military, but this is a great opportunity for me to serve my country. I wouldn’t want it any other way. 

SR: Would you violate your oath to keep your job?

MK: Absolutely not. I would take my uniform off in a heartbeat, I would lay down my badge to stand with the Constitution and 2A. There wouldn’t even be hesitation. I wouldn’t even think about it. 

SR: That’s an interesting perspective. Just to be clear on that, what you’re saying is that if it came to it, you’d rather slap your badge down and walk away from your job but you would still feel obligated to defend the Constitution.

MK: Absolutely. I would defend it with my life, if need be. Hopefully we can come out of this in a peaceful manner. The last thing we want is any kind of violence from anybody. I would stand with freedom, I would stand with freedom.

SR: (0:27:22.3) To avoid violence, that’s the whole point of OK. If we get enough of these people who have taken an oath in military service and police service, if enough of them will stand up like you have and say I will defend liberty with this badge on, with this uniform on, if I have to I’ll take it off and go defend liberty. One thing I will not do is be a tool of oppression. If enough of them stand up and join you in that kind of a pledge, I think we can stop it in a peaceful way. Then people can stand up in their states and nullify. What you’re asking the Town Council to do, that’s what’s really interesting about this, it’s not just you stating this as the leader of your men within your department. You’re also asking the town to step up and make a declaration that within the city limits of this town, this is how it’s going to be. We don’t care what Washington, DC wants to do. Eric Holder can do what he wants, Napolitano can do what she wants, President Obama can do what he wants. It’s not going to fly here. That’s the critical thing, is you’re calling on your whole community, with your leadership and the leadership of the Town Council, to stand up. Is that right?

MK: Correct. If I can just say, this proposal, 2A preservation, we’re going to try to pass it as a resolution rather than an ordinance. If I could just state that, the resolution is to prevent federal, state, or local infringement on the right to keep and bear firearms, firearm accessories, or ammunition, nullifying all federal, state, or local acts in violation of 2A of the Constitution of the United States along with Article 1 Section 21, the right to keep and bear arms, of the Pennsylvania Constitution. This is what it’s all about, this is what I’m trying to get through, is the nullification process under 10A. Hopefully we get it passed. We will not recognize any unconstitutional law or regulations or rules or executive orders that are handed down from the elites in Washington or anybody else as far as I’m concerned, that go against 2A or the Constitution. We will not enforce anything, and we will not recognize it here in Gilberton Borough. Hopefully the Borough Council stands with me and says, and agrees, and we can send a strong message all across this great nation. 

DC: (0:29:56.3) That sounds like exactly the type of plan that could establish a model resolution to be copied in communities across the country. One of the things you were talking about earlier, Chief, about being younger and going out and being interested in shooting and things like that, and you also talked about the importance of passing on this type of heritage to your children, you speak with reverence about your father, which is the American way. This is the way we were, basically most of us were raised to believe, and we hold great reverence for what came before us and the sacrifices and our obligation to pass it on to the people who come after us. One of the things I notice is that too often, young people are told by the establishment authorities that guns are bad and you have to stay away from them, as opposed to bringing them into the culture and giving them the training they need and making them appreciate it as well. We kind of see this manifested when we go to Tea Party meetings, or I’ve been at speeches with Stewart at different meetings and you see the mean age of the audience in attendance is middle age and older, with exponentially decreasing as you get down younger in age. Do you agree that police chiefs like yourself could be influential in changing that, in letting children and young people know that people recognized by society as being in authority are their friends and are there to encourage them to embrace freedom and to pass on the wisdom that they have learned?

MK: (0:31:38.9) Absolutely, I agree 100%. We as law enforcement officials need to do that. We need to come out to our communities and specifically children and young teens and say we’re all in this together. We stand side by side. A firearm is not a bad thing, it’s a good thing. We all need to step up and say let’s get together, let’s get some training if you’re interested, we need to drive that message home. Our children, they’re going to be our predecessors. I take my children out, my boys out, on a regular basis. We train with our firearms. We target practice with our firearms. It’s been in my mind, it’s part of my culture, my heritage, my country. I pass that down to my children and I would hope that other law enforcement officials go into their communities and start some type of training program, just to teach people and the youth of this country that firearms are not bad, as the mainstream media would like everybody on this planet to believe that in the United States there’s a gun behind every blade of grass and they’re all bad. That’s not the case at all. One man’s act of total evilness, they’re trying to turn it around where all gun owners are targeted as criminals. That’s not the case at all. 

DC: (0:33:28.2) And when we do it right, the children that are raised that way, they’re the least likely to be the ones that we have to worry about. I’ve done the same with my children. I know Stewart shares that philosophy. It’s like, these are the kids that turn out to be good kids and turn out to be stellar adults later in life and become the leaders.

MK: Absolutely. My youngest son, he’s now 16, he’ll be graduating in a couple years, he wants to go into the law enforcement field. That’s what he’s decided to do, and I support him 100% in that. I wish there were more kids like him in the world. Unfortunately, we have a lot of social problems in this country. I think they need to be addressed at a different level. They’re more worried about firearms, which approximately the states or facts are, last, 2011 I think there was 11k deaths in firearms, and 74% of that was related to gangs, with gang shootings, gang members shooting each other. And the number one killer in the US is tobacco use, the number 2 is doctor errors, but don’t see them going after the tobacco industry or going after the doctors or anything like that. They pick on the least

SR: After the one in Colorado, you had people, men who were on psychotropic drugs. That’s something else you don’t see addressed, the obvious influence these so-called anti-depressants have, which cause, a side effect of them almost without fail is violent impulses and increased likelihood of suicide. So they put them on psychotropic drugs and then they go on a shooting spree. Instead of blaming the psychotropic drugs and the drug industry, they instead try to turn around and blame the gun owners and try to dishonor us for this. We know what this is. Feinstein was writing this bill for over a year, and she’s always wanted to up the ante and go to registration of firearms owners, been wanting that for decades. This is just their chance to get it down, this is their capitalization, David calls them blood dancers, dancing on the blood of victims to get what they’ve always wanted, which is a disarmed population. But I think that the attitude of gun owners now has hardened, and I think for good reason. They realize, looking at the genocide and democide, the killing of people by their own government in the 20th century, they realize that you cannot allow yourself to be registered, because registration leads to confiscation. And then once you’re disarmed, that’s when the mass-murder happens. They realize that they had to draw the line. I think the hard line has to be drawn at registration.

MK: (0:36:29.0) You’re absolutely correct. It’s the time when all of us freedom-lovers and everyone that’s taken an oath in this great nation to protect and defend the Constitution, it’s time for us to pick sides, to draw that line in the sand and say you’re either with freedom or you’re with tyranny. Unfortunately, I never thought I would see this in my lifetime, but it’s time. We gotta pick sides. You’re either with us or you’re against us. That’s that.

SR: Yesterday, we just saw General McChrystal of all people come out on television and say that those are weapons of war, they don’t belong on our streets. It seems to me like he’s a Benedict Arnold, he’s a man who is violating his oath, who should know better. Apparently, he either doesn’t understand what he’s talking about or he’s willfully playing the anti-gun game. What does your dad think of him? Have you talked to him about that, about McChrystal coming out in favor of gun control?

MK: All I can say is he doesn’t think very highly. I can’t repeat what he says, cause it might, it’s not appropriate to say over the radio. All I can say is my dad does not support that at all, he’s pro 2A and pro Constitution. Kudos to him, he served his country well.

SR: (0:37:57.1) That’s the big point. It doesn’t make a difference, like McChrystal, I don’t care how many tabs he has, how many jumpmaster wings he has and all that, I don’t care how good a soldier he was. When he decided to step across the line and become an enemy of the right of the people, in the Bill of Rights, to bear arms, their 2A right. When he crossed that line, he became a Benedict Arnold. Benedict Arnold was a wonderful general, too, probably the best general on the Patriot cause, until he crossed over.

MK: I have to agree with you 100%, he is definitely an enemy of the people. We need to stick together, we can’t be having these people that took an oath come out and all the sudden decide, oh I’m going to stand with the oppressors, I’m not going to stand with freedom lovers in this great nation. It’s horrifying, and he should be ashamed of himself.

DC: (0:38:54.5) I’d like to revisit 2 topics we’ve spoken about in this conversation, tie them in and go forward with it. The first is that you have it looks like backing from your town council, the second is we talked about the youth and how the establishment basically discourages from having anything to do with guns. This entire [garbled] that we’re in right now, we’re finding as a result of what happened in Newtown, and prior school shootings and things like that. We see that the police establishment in this country, at least the ones coming from urban areas, they are discouraging armed teachers, they are discouraging any kind of defense at schools. They basically want to have, when seconds count, the police are minutes away type of an attitude, which basically guarantees that any kind of a mass murderer is going to be able to achieve his objective, get his success and immortality before the bullet, whether it’s imposed by himself or someone else, finally stops him. I guess what I’m asking is, in your neck of the woods at least, have you determined whether the educational establishments, the schools, are receptive to trying a new approach and becoming somewhat responsible for their own defense? Or is there still a lot of work even in rural Pennsylvania that needs to be done?

MK: (0:40:14.5) I can’t speak for every school district, but I can speak for my school district, which I was, I’m an elected official and I sit on the board of directors at the school district. One of my first things at the beginning of this school year was to put armed police officers in school buildings, prior to Sandy Hook, the tragedy up there. I’m proud to say I championed it, and all of our board members went along with it except one, who voted against it. I can hold my head up high and say we took lead in our county, in our district, and throughout Pennsylvania to say it’s time we protect our children. We should have been protecting them all along. When you oversee a school district with 2000 children and well over 100 staff members, how do you put a price tag on a child’s life? That’s what, I drove that message home at our meetings and to the public, that we need to protect our children, no matter what costs. So we did, we put armed police officers with the power to arrest in our buildings. 

SR: (0:41:40.6) Chief, let me ask you, following on that. What do you think about the idea of the teachers being able to carry concealed so that. Like in the Columbine Shooting, there was a police officer present in the school, but the two teens who went on the shooting spree knew who he was, where he would be, and they dealt with him. They gamed him into their plan, they accounted for him. So what do you think about the idea of teachers being able to carry concealed so that a gunman can’t know who has the guns, can’t know how many people or where they are and can’t account for them?

MK: I think that’s a great idea, I really do. I think it should be on a volunteer basis, for concealed carry on the teachers. If they want to come out and say I’m willing to go through training and carry and put my, defend my students in my class, kudos for them. I applaud them. I would like to see that all over the nation.

SR: We put out a message on our site that we’re going to be calling on OK members who are firearms instructors to offer free training for teachers. We’re still working out the bugs on how to do this, how to coordinate the two. But we had a flood of teachers from across the country contacting us, saying they would like to take advantage of that training. Quite a few of them said they’re already a concealed carry holder, they carry concealed outside of their school. But they want to get trained, and they want to change the culture. Some of them are in school districts where they’re still prohibited, even though they have a concealed carry license, they’re still prohibited by the rules of their school, from carrying. They’re frustrated by this and they want to change things. We have seen quite a few police, or uh teachers across the country who are excited and interested in learning how to use a gun, and are willing to step up and volunteer to carry concealed. It’s kind of the same thing we see with police chiefs. You don’t see those teachers on the news media. You see only the teachers and administrators and spokesmen for the teachers unions who are anti-gun. They don’t show you the rank-and-file teachers who are pro-firearms and pro-2A.

MK: (0:44:03.7) Correct. I was contacted by a female school teacher from Illinois. My heart goes out to those people in Illinois, they’re in for the fight of their lives out there, what their legislators are trying to do to the people of Illinois is horrendous. She wanted a copy of our, my proposal that I drafted, to take to her local chief of police, her sheriff’s department, and her local officials, and try and get this passed in her jurisdiction, in her area. It was just heart-warming that I could be contacted by someone from Illinois, which has the strictest gun laws in the nation, and they have the highest crime rate. It just warms my heart as an American that these people out there are standing up. If I can be an inspiration for that, so be it. I pledged to her that I’ll do anything I can do to help the cause. If she emailed me all her contact information for her local officials and chiefs and sheriffs department, and anything and everything I can do as far as making phone calls and sending letters in support of this teacher and her efforts. I’ll do it.

SR: We’re going to put your resolution up on our website, as Dave was saying earlier, as a model that other folks can take and replicate. This was one of our plans in the first place, it’s kind of funny you jumped out ahead of us this time. We were going to draft a resolution people could use, but now you’ve given us one. We’ll put that up there and encourage people to take that as a good example and say, look here’s a Chief of Police doing it in Pennsylvania, hey Sheriff or Chief, what do you say? Give them a little bit of positive pressure, say we expect you to stand up for our rights just like this man is doing. He swore the same oath you did, let’s see you do it. That has to happen across this country. 

MK: (0:46:08.2) Absolutely. I’d like to say that the support I’ve been receiving from all across the nation, and even in Canada, I’ve been getting calls from Canada, from New York to California, from Illinois to Texas, in support of this. All across this great nation, people contacting me, sending me hand-written letters in support of this. The tens of thousands of people that have reached out to me that want copies of this resolution to submit to their local authorities and to their local elected officials, and even at the state level they want to take it to them. It’s just, it just makes you believe that there’s still hope for every freedom-loving American there’s hope. It’s like I gave inspiration. I had a man saying that he was about to give up, he was from Alabama and he said he was about to give up on it all until he heard me on YouTube on a radio show. He called me up and said I’d like to thank you, you inspired me to keep going. You inspired me. Can I get a copy of your resolution so I can take it to my local sheriff? That’s just heart-warming. This isn’t, it’s not about me, it’s about my beliefs. I hope I inspire more people, more freedom loving Americans to stand up and say enough is enough, we’ve had it, this is it, we’re drawing a line in the sand and we’re going to stand with freedom. 

SR: (0:47:59.7) That’s a really good point. This is, the bad guys, the bad people and the elites to all think we’re all isolated, we’re all alone, there’s nothing we can do. We see that defeatist attitude even within the liberty movement. It’s critically important for more people to step up and stand up. We need to have a broad and deep skirmish line, veterans with police officers with average Joes who are gun owners but as dedicated as we are to defending the Constitution, all need to step up together. Whether it’s in mass marches at our state capitols, whether it’s in resolutions. I think a real good idea that we’re going to be pushing is for folks to take a resolution of civil disobedience and nullification against any kind of a gun ban or registration, whatever they come up with, and take it to our local citizens at gun shows, have them sign it, then they can walk into the sheriff’s office and say hey Sheriff, look, the gun owners in this community, this is what they all say, they all put their John Hancock on this resolution. Even if they did it anonymously, like US Marine Corps Veteran Gulf War 1, or whatever it is, to show the sheriff and say look, we’re not messing around. We’re willing to step up and say we’re not willing to do this, we want you to step up. And we’ll back you up if you do the right thing, and we will oppose you if you do the wrong thing. That’s the right message, and tell the sheriff, make a choice.

MK: (0:49:29.1) Absolutely, I couldn’t agree with you more.

DC: That brings to mind another question. The environment that you’re operating in, do you have a sheriff who has a broader jurisdiction, and what does your sheriff think about this?

MK: I haven’t spoken to my sheriff. He has jurisdiction all through the local county. I really haven’t spoken to him yet about it. I really wanted to see what we do here in Gilberton Borough, what our elected officials do first, and then I’m going to extend my hand toward the sheriff and hopefully he’ll accept it and stand with the side of the Constitution and the oath that he had taken to uphold the Constitution and in particular 2A. I would hope that our local sheriff is pro-gun and is pro-2A and believes in the Constitution and the oath he took. Like I said, I can’t speak for him, but I would hope he’s on the side of freedom. 

DC: I can think of a good candidate for sheriff if he’s not.

SR: (0:50:43.8) I tell you what, Chief. One thing, when you are ready, once you’ve gone through the process of presenting this to your city council and they adopt it. We would be happy to help in any way we can, the Pennsylvania chapter president there is an Army Ranger veteran, he’d be happy to help rally the veterans, go to the VFW halls, American Legion, Marine Corps League, rally the gun owners in your county. As I said, to put positive pressure, let the sheriff know, look, on the good side you stand tall, you’ll be backed up by this, especially by the veterans, in your county. But also let him know that look, if you go against our rights, as protected by the Bill of Rights, then you’re going to be, there might be a new sheriff in town next election. Hopefully he’ll do the right thing for the right reason, but we need to step up and if it takes a little bit of persuasion, knowing that they could face defeat in the next election, so be it, that’s what has to happen across this country. They’ve got to choose.

MK: Absolutely. Couldn’t agree with you more. I’d like to say, if possible I’d like to have some OK come to the next meeting, on January 24 in support.

SR: Count on it.

MK: If we can arrange that, that would be fantastic. That would send a strong message.

SR: You can count on that. We’ll do our best to recruit veterans, and not just OK, but veterans in general and anybody who wants to stand for the Constitution.

MK: Absolutely. That’s what we need. We need people to come forward and say we stay with the Constitution and 2A. Whether it be the baker from down the street or top law enforcement officials or military personnel, current or retired. We all need to stand together. That would be fantastic.

SR: (0:52:44.4) That harkens back to the earlier point that David started off making. Look, the people are supposed to be the militia. It’s not supposed to be we sit around watching Dancing with the Stars and leave it to the professionals to defend our lives and liberty and the Constitution. It’s supposed to be us too. It’s great to have a good sheriff and chief of police in our town, but it’s our obligation also.

MK: Absolutely. And the false conception that’s out there that the police can be everywhere at once, it doesn’t happen. I can’t be everywhere at once. When something bad happens or if I’m out on a call, and within that split second something happens on another part of the Borough and I’m dealing with something else, my response time could be from 5-10 minutes. That’s where we need people, we need the average citizen, we need the American people to stand up and assist with their local communities in protecting them from crime and home invasions and you name it it’s out there. We need the American people to stand up in their communities and assist their local police departments or sheriff’s department and stand with them and not stand against them.

SR: (0:54:16.3) Let me ask you this, another softball question given what you just said. Do you fear private guns in the hands of private citizens or do you want them to be armed?

MK: I encourage it. I think every law-abiding in this great country should be armed. It’s their god-given right. They should be able to defend themselves and defend their towns, their neighborhoods, their neighbors, at any given time. I strongly encourage that the citizens of Gilberton Borough be armed. Members of my council, elected officials here, actually carry concealed at the meetings. I applaud them for that. I had a guy come to the office yesterday, he drove several hours just to shake my hand and say hey, you inspired me and I wanted to come meet you in person. He asked me when the meeting was and how many people the building will hold, and if he can attend the meeting and bring as many people as he can and if they can carry concealed. And I said absolutely, you can bring anybody you’d like, it’s a public meeting, you’re more than welcome to carry concealed.

SR: It’s not just their right, it’s their duty. As you said earlier, you could be across the town, it’s the duty of the citizen to have the capacity to defend themselves, their families, their neighbors, and their community. You can’t be everywhere at one place, and we wouldn’t want that many police. We’d be living in a police state.

MK: Absolutely.

DC: (0:56:13.1) That’s kind of the sea change I’m looking for, that’s why this is such an important spring board for making that happen. I don’t want to feel like I need a hero or something like that. I don’t, I’m a man, I’m perfectly capable of doing things rationally and morally. We’re having a nice conversation here, and we’re the ones the anti-gunners would portray as extremists. Just as I’m supposed to be able to rely on my police chief and sheriff to be responsible and to enforce proper laws and to do protective activities, I want them to be able to rely on me. Just as I’m supposed to be able to trust them, it’s a two-way street. I’d like to know these people and have these people know that yes in fact you can trust this guy and his neighbor, etc. I’m looking around right now at my neighborhood, I’m on my back porch. Stewart knows, whenever I do radio programs, I like to go out and enjoy a nice cigar and just look at the surrounding area. I’ve got neighbors that are hunters and other neighbors that own firearms, we all get along, none of us rob liquor stores or do drive bys or anything like that. We’re all responsible human beings that get by, what a resource. To be able to have that in a community with the leadership that you’re showing, I think that’s a tremendous gift that your community has.

MK: I hope so. I hope they, you gotta lead by example. For any police chief or sheriff or elected official that comes out and opposes the right of the people to keep and bear arms, they should step down, they need to step down in my eyes, that’s my opinion. I can’t speak for everybody in the US, but I can speak from my heart and I believe if they’re opposed for the people to keep and bear arms in protection of themselves or their property or to assist their local communities in times of disaster, if their local officials or sheriffs or chiefs of police don’t go along with that, they need to find a new line of work. 

SR: (0:58:24.7) That’s right, or they need to be purged out of office. Give them the opportunity to go get a new job. One thing I always talk, when I talk to veterans’ halls across the country, I talk to them and say look you guys, you’re going to wind up being the security force for your community during any kind of disaster. Every hurricane we see, what do you wind up seeing? Guys sitting on their front lawns with rifles and shotguns guarding their neighborhoods against looters. It’s just the way it goes, because police will be overwhelmed. Whether it’s Rodney King riots, we saw the same kind of thing there, or Hurricane Katrina or Sandy or any other hurricane, that’s just the way it goes. So I encourage them to get organized ahead of time. Why not ahead of time form neighborhood watches or within their own veterans’ hall get squared away and make sure they coordinate with good communications networks and ham radios and emergency medical supplies. Then reach out to the sheriff and police department and say we’re here to back you up and be a force multiplier for security of this town. I think that’s what they’re supposed to be doing anyway as a militia. I kind of prick their conscience and say you’ve got an oath that you’re not really keeping fully, because you’re supposed to be the militia of your county. So I encourage them to join a police auxiliary, start one if it doesn’t already exist, sheriff’s posse, whatever vehicle they use to work with the county government and city government, the established sheriff and police chief. And that’s how you found out whether you’ve got a squared away chief of police and sheriff who knows their oath. If they’re hostile to veterans stepping up and volunteering like that, you know you have a serious problem.

MK: Absolutely, they should be encouraging it. In my eyes, it should be encouraged. Like you mentioned Katrina, which was a devastating disaster in the US, where you had the government coming in and confiscating firearms. These people were left helpless against the thugs that took advantage of this natural disaster down in Louisiana. What the government did was absolutely disgraceful, going in and taking the arms, the only line of defense these people had during that natural disaster was their firearms. And you had the government officials, the local police there, and sheriffs and the federal government coming in and confiscating the only protection these people had left, from the bad guys. The bad guys didn’t give up their guns, the good guys gave up their guns. They did, because they were told to. They should resist it by all means. I don’t agree with what happened down there, as far as the confiscation goes with the firearms, because then the people were left to be victimized.

SR: (1:01:31.9) Did you see the film of the little old lady, standing in her kitchen and she had a small 6 shot revolver with the cylinder open, obviously unloaded, and she’s standing there talking to the police saying look I can take care of myself, showing them her revolver, which was clearly unloaded and perfectly safe. And all of a sudden, a California Highway Patrol officer who had been federalized and brought to the area, tackles her in her kitchen. Did you see that film?

MK: Yes I did. It was horrific. That officer should have been arrested for doing that. He broke his oath, he violated the Constitution when he did that act, that was a horrendous act. This old lady said she’s willing to stand up and defend herself, and unfortunately there are police out there like that.

SR: That brings us to a hard question then. What do you do if the President by executive order, the United Nations by some goofy treaty, or Congress by some silly law requires Americans to turn their guns in or go register, then down the road they would come and turn them in. What do you do if the ATF and the FBI, DHS start rolling into rural Pennsylvania and start going and doing raids on these stubborn gun owners who will not give up their arms? What do you do?

MK: (1:03:08.7) That’s the whole reason why we need to network and get together, to stop the oppression. God forbid that would ever happen, that’s the last thing we want is any type of violence. But I would stand, I can speak for myself and my beliefs. I would stand with the people, I would protect my citizens, at all means and all costs. 

SR: You would basically, what they call interposition. You would interpose yourself in between the citizens in your community and these oath breakers.

MK: Absolutely. I would hope that our county sheriff, who would be the chief law enforcement official throughout the county, would stand with the people and not with the federal government coming in and taking the people’s firearms. I would hope he would stand with the people and not with the oppressors. And like I said, god forbid something like that scenario would happen, because that’s a scary thought. But I would stand fast and I would not give an inch. 

DC: That’s another one of the big concerns, particularly when you get into larger sheriffs departments and larger police departments is the federalization and militarization of police, using federal dollars and fusion centers and things like that. Now, with the purse strings, it always comes with control, there’s no such thing as free money. It’s almost like they force you to sell your soul. It’s a real concern. When we get back to talking about Katrina, we saw not only did the outrage happen with citizen disarmament, but we saw further outrage on the part of the conduct of the people who were the oath takers who broke their oath. You saw a significant percentage of police officers turned up AWOL, because they went to go take care of number 1, take care of their own families. And I saw videotapes of police officers looting, taking DVDs out of Walmarts and things like that. I guess what I’m getting at is I sure hope we see pockets like yours come up more and more and more, and let people know that it’s not just going to be a cakewalk, we’re not just going to be able to go in with impunity and roll SUVs up and the guys in the balaclavas, dressed like ninjas, come in and bully people. That in fact there is going to be the potential for the interposition that’s going to make them think twice before they even try it. One of the best ways to avoid violence, just as an individual criminal can be discouraged knowing that he has a hard target instead of a soft easy one, that also works on a societal level.

MK: (1:06:07.8) Absolutely, you’re absolutely correct. If they do come rolling in, I can guarantee you that when they come rolling in if they do, they will be armed to the teeth with automatic weapons. Not with semi-automatic weapons. As the liberals and the elitists in Washington would like to believe that the semi-automatic weapon is an assault weapon. It’s not an assault weapon, the true definition of an assault weapon is a machine gun. And there’s not many people that can own machine guns. They’re legal to own in Pennsylvania, but you have to go through a 3 month background check, have to have your local chief of police or sheriff sign off and say you’re an upstanding citizen, you’re allowed to have that. That’s great, that’s fantastic. But these semi-automatic weapons that look like military style machine guns, they’re not assault weapons. The mainstream media just keeps driving that home, assault weapon assault weapon. An assault weapon is an automatic weapon capable of dispersing more than one round with one pull of the trigger. That is a real assault weapon, that’s a military style assault weapon, not these semi-automatic AR-15, that’s not an assault weapon at all.

SR: (1:07:38.3) That’s a fair point. Although, the other side of the coin is well look, we’re supposed to have military weapons capable of, being equivalent to the infantry weapon of a potential invader, or equivalent to the infantry weapon of the standing army. So my perspective, I think the Gun Control Act of 1934 is unconstitutional.

MK: Absolutely

SR: Because it violates the military capacity of the people to keep and bear arms. That’s what’s so unfortunate. Even with the Heller decision, even though it recognized the individual right to bear arms, it rubber stamped and said nothing herein shall call into question all these gun control laws that already exist. Many of them trample on that military capacity. It kind of made 2A only about self-defense against private crime, your ability to have a revolver. Then you get the leftists now, anti-gunners both left and right, saying well we’re not disarming you, you can still have a hunting rifle or a shotgun. It’s like unless you, this argument is unless we disarm you of everything, you can’t say you’re being disarmed. As long as we leave you a .22 or a single shot shotgun, then we’re not disarming you, we just don’t want these weapons of war on the street. Like McChrystal’s like oh they don’t belong on the street. That’s upside down of the intention of the Founders, who intended you to have the functional equivalent of the infantry weapons available to the standing army.

MK: (1:09:16.0) Absolutely, I couldn’t agree with you more. I’m a firm believer in, you want to own it, you can have it. That’s just the way it is in my eyes. In my police department here, we have several machine guns, which I take out and train with a lot. I take other police officers from different jurisdictions, I take them out shooting and we train with them. Citizens in my town, I take them out shooting with them. I think it’s very important that they be able to own anything that any opposing force could own. By all means, I’m all for that.

SR: So David, do you have any other questions for the chief?

DC: At this point, I think this has been a tremendously instructive conversation, I’ve really enjoyed having it. The only other thing I have to add is that Chief, thank you very much, I’d like to write an article about this conversation Stewart, link to whatever podcast you end up putting on, once you have that you can send me the link. And I’d like to be able to contact you chief and maybe ask you a couple questions for the record, so I can put some quotes in my story.

MK: Absolutely.

SR: (1:10:45.9) Now chief. There’s going to be, as we go forward with Biden talking about executive orders being used for the president to do whatever he wants, as the mask comes off. You said earlier, people are going to have to make choices. And we’re going to do our very best to spread the message that police officers across this country, now is the time. You can’t sit by and let this happen without standing up. And when you stand up, this is going to be the message to them, the people will stand up with you. They need to know that there are police officers who do take their oath seriously, who are willing to walk away from their job if they have to, but will still not walk away from their oath, will still protect the people. Or even better, will do it with their shield, their badge still on. They need to know that. So I really want to commend you for being a stand up example and we will do our very best to make sure that you are not alone, that you will have more and more chiefs and sheriffs across the country making similar stands. I just want to thank you very much and if there’s anything we can do to help you, just ask. We’ll be there. And once again, we’re honored to have you as a member of OK now, it’s awesome that you stepped up, you’re a fantastic addition to our ranks.

MK: (1:12:07.5) It’s an honor for me to be a member and to speak with you and freedom lovers all across this great nation. By all means, if anybody has any questions, they can contact me at the Borough Hall, if it’s okay I can give the phone number out. It’s Chief Mark Kessler at 570-874-4790. I’d be happy to answer anybody’s questions or send copies of our resolution. Stewart, as you said earlier, I hope you can post it online on your national website. If there’s anything I can do to assist you guys in any way, shape, or form, by all means get a hold of me. I’ll do what I can.

SR: Absolutely, I will. We’re putting together our draft resolution for our police officer members right now. If you’re willing, I’d like to send you a copy of our draft for your review, let us know what you think.

MK: Absolutely, it would be my honor to help you guys out.

SR: One last thing is. Do you want folks to show up at the town council meeting on the 24th.

MK: I would encourage it, anybody who supports this and who stands with freedom and 2A to come and show their support at the town hall meeting on January 24th. It’s going to be at 7pm, the meeting starts then. At the Gilberton Borough Hall, 2710 Main Street, Mahanoy Plane, Pennsylvania 17949.

SR: Excellent, if you would email me all that information and I’ll make sure we put it up in a written article as well on our site. I want to thank you very much Chief. You really are, it’s a breath of fresh air and a positive inspiration to have someone who wasn’t even in the ranks of OK to step up on his own and honor his oath like that. I think it’s a really good example we can use to help people not give in to despair and discouragement. This is a dark time, and it’s important for them to know they’re not alone. I want to thank David too for joining us tonight. David does exceptional work, I encourage everyone out there to read his Gun Examiner. Go ahead David, give them the details on where to find your articles.

DC: Basically, if you just take my name David Codrea, DavidCodrea.com will take you to the national Gun Rights Examiner column. And also waronguns.com is my blog. Yeah, I look forward Chief to working with you more. I’m going to be looking at my schedule and do a little Google Map. Boy if I can make it out to the meeting, I’d like to try. 

MK: It would be an honor to have you David, and anybody else. I look forward to working with both of you great men in the future.

SR: Well gentleman thank you all. This is the gathering of the usual suspects I guess. I think it’s going to give Mark Potok and SPLC fits to know that we’ve got stand up police officers and veterans and gun rights activists all coming together to stand together. So god bless you both.

MK: God bless you too.

DC: Thanks for including me.

SR: Alright folks. That’s the last, I guess we can call this OK radio signing off here. We’ll put this up on YouTube. I look forward to further interviews. I’d like to have David back in particular to talk about the Gunwalker scandal and how that relates to what’s going on now, the hypocrisy of the Obama administration intentionally flooding the Mexican cartels with firearms from the US just to be able to manipulate and cause a crisis to be able to clampdown on gun owners, I think it relates very well to this current controversy over assault rifles, so-called assault rifles. We’ll have him back for that, and other folks as we go forward into this fight. The focus is on 2A now, but we should also keep in mind that it’s the entire Bill of Rights we defend as OK. God bless, god bless America.
