Why Oath Keepers are Under Attack – Stewart Rhodes Oath Keepers## Uploaded to OathKeepersOK on 07/26/2010## Listened on 12/15/16## Mostly not verbatim. Check video before quoting## Keywords: DHS; military; police; firefighters; oath; pledge; defend Constitution; guardian; Gadsden flag; SPLCSR: When you took that oath, every one of you that ever served in the military or police, or even firefighters have taken an oath. When you take that oath, that’s when your decision is made, right there on that spot. You pledge, you swear to God Almighty, that you’re going to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, at all cost. All of us who served in the military and police this is our bond, firefighters too. When we say those words, it’s not just something we say. We know that it means we’re writing a blank check made out to the people of the United States for an amount up to and including our lives. That’s the difference. You want to know the difference? That’s it.SR: (0:00:44.5) When a firefighter goes into a burning building, he knows he might not come out. But he’s duty bound to do it. He took upon himself that responsibility. I served as a volunteer firefighter in Montana for only about 8 months, I was just a rookie. I tell you what, I saw some men of true character and courage. Those are the guys that run when everybody else is running out. That’s the pure spirit of a guardian, who’s willing to sacrifice his life.SR: (0:01:17.1) Sadly enough in this country, people respect firefighters and they still understand that they’re heroes, they really are. But all too often now they look at police and don’t see heroes anymore. They look at them and think these are the people who are going to come kick down my door. These are the guys that are going to arrest me and taze me on some traffic stop. These are the guys I see on YouTube doing things like tazing some old lady. Or like during Katrina, tackling an old lady to the ground in her kitchen because she dares to hold a revolver in her hand with the cylinder open, obviously no danger to anybody. Any idiot that understands guns whatsoever should understand that an open cylinder, an empty cylinder is no danger. What is she going to do, speed load it in 2 seconds?SR: (0:02:02.7) They see these things and start to see the police in this country as the enemy of the people, as an occupying army. There are all too many people in this country, sincere lovers of liberty, sincere constitutionalists, who are increasingly becoming afraid of their own police officers. I find that sad. I find that tragic. And I find it contemptible. You know where it’s coming from? There are people who want to put a divide, a wall between the police and the people. They are doing this intentionally. The MIAC report, the fusion center report from Missouri that labeled just about everybody, the Constitution Party, a supporter of Chuck Baldwin a potential terrorist, a supporter of Ron Paul a potential terrorist. Kind of like the Emmy awards. A supporter of immigration control a potential terrorist.SR: (0:02:55.3) It was one of the police officers in Missouri who saw that and said I don’t like being called a potential terrorist. That police officer leaked it. The same goes for the DHS report that smeared veterans as potential terrorists. That was also leaked by a federal officer, a very good man. In addition, same with the extremist lexicon, also leaked by a federal officer who did not like the pattern he saw of this wall of separation, of this attempt to make police officers think the people are their enemy. So they pull you over, in their mind you’re a potential enemy. Especially if you have a Ron Paul sticker on your car, a constitutionalist sticker on your car. What’s the other one, live free or die? What’s the one guy, he had a sticker on his car that got hassled? Gadsden flag, he got pulled over and a police officer, sadly enough, told him the reason I pulled you over is because of that bumper sticker on your car. That’s a piece of American history right there. This is the flag of our fathers, our forefathers flew this flag as they gave their lives for our liberty. Yet this flag now is seen as a sign of a terrorist, of a lawbreaker, of an enemy of the people, of a killer of women and children.SR: (0:04:20.5) It’s contemptible. There are people in this country who do not respect our republic, do not support the Constitution, who desire to destroy this republic. They are doing all they can to erase our heritage, to make it off limits to dare to fly this flag. To make it off limits to dare to stand on Lexington Green and simply renew the oath you swore by legal obligation. They want it off limits for you to celebrate your heritage, to even talk about the Constitution. To even call yourself a constitutionalist. I saw that DHS lexicon where it said constitutionalist equals militiaman equals extremist equals terrorist. I thought oh my gosh, I’ve been calling myself a constitutionalist for years, I didn’t know. I had no idea I was an extremist. What a revelation. Or a terrorist, yeah.SR: (0:05:19.4) There is a conscious effort to put a divide between the police and the people. They want the police to see you as the enemy, they want you to see the police as the enemy. Is that true? Is that the truth? No. It’s like the Matrix, in that movie, it’s false. It’s balderdash. It’s nonsense. This is one of the big. I tell you what, I started this organization, I already knew there were good police officers out there. I had been a firearms instructor and had met quite a few of them here in Metro in the past, gone to shooting schools with them, Thunder Ranch, Gunsight, whatever. Had a good time. I recognized there was that bond. There’s a bond between military and police. It shouldn’t be a surprise. They’re all willing to sling on a rifle, put on a pistol, and go do what has to be done to defend their country and their neighborhoods and their friends and neighbors and family. They take that responsibility, they’re warriors. It’s that common bond. Others have stepped up for active duty, and even us veterans frankly, who dare to stand up. Don’t you think I’m putting a big bullseye on my forehead by doing this? I’m not exaggerating.SR: (0:06:27.6) When SPLC does their smear stuff, are they just saying that to be mean and nasty, and maybe a libel suit will come out of it? No. It’s potentially deadly. They want the FBI, DOJ, ATF to come and investigate people like me. That’s their purpose, smear you and marginalize you, and then hopefully unleash the power of government against you to silence and suppress you. They want them to come kick down my door in the middle of the night in body armor. They want guys like me to come to my house. They’re not going to come do it. Is Mark Potok going to come to my house in body armor and a baklava [sic] with an MP-5 in his hand and kick down my door or use a battering ram to come through my door? Is he gonna be point man behind the ram? No! He won’t come do it himself. He’ll send someone like Chauncey [sp?] or someone like Dave Freeman or someone like Bob back there, big strong guy. He wants someone like that to come to my house and kick in my door and put a submachine gun in my face and in my children’s face. That’s what he wants.SH: (0:07:44.1) He wants them to think that I’m their enemy and vice versa. He wants all of us to think that. Then they expect. Why are they upset about us? It’s not because, we’re not racist, it’s not that. They know it too. It’s not because we’re terrorists, celebrating Timothy McVeigh. What they’re upset about is the oath! They don’t like it. What they perceive as their minions and toys even think for themselves. Their vision, their perspective, their opinion of the police and military is that they’re just like toy soldiers that you wind up and set them marching. And they think, because they don’t believe in a republic, they believe in absolute rule, whoever holds political power. They believe we are a democracy. There are people in this country, when they hold political power, they figure hey I won the election, all the toys belong to me. That includes the police and military, they’re my toys to do what I want with. How dare you interfere with my toys, they throw a tantrum like a little kid crying and screaming in a sandbox. Don’t touch my toys. Don’t remind those men and women of honor and courage of their obligations under the law. Don’t you dare talk to them about their individual responsibility to know the Constitution and to keep their oath to defend it. Don’t do that. Don’t talk to them. Why? Because I’m encouraging violence? Am I encouraging police and military to go out and start shooting people? No. All I’m simply asking them to do, all we’re asking them to do is to stand down, to refuse to comply with unlawful orders, as is their obligation. It’s been a long standing legal obligation to disobey unlawful orders. Not just an option, a duty.